Oh, it's you. 
 What should we do with him, Big D? Harry laughs. 
Big D? Cool name, but to me, you'll always be Ikkle Duddicums. 
Shut up!
Ooo, tough guy. Not so tough in your bed, are you? 
What? 
You boys go home now, or I'll be calling your parents! They pause and
            edge away from Harry. 
I heard you talking in your sleep, last night. Crying. "No, don't kill
            Cedric, don't kill Cedric! Dad, help me, heeelp me! He's going to kill me! Boo-hoo!"
            Dudley's gang laughs. 
Shut up, Dudley. I'm warning you... 
Why should I? Harry whips out his wand and points it at Dudley. 
Because if you don't I'll turn you into the idiot pig you are!
 Don't point that thing at me! 
Not so brave now, are you Duddykins? Now tell your little friends to go
            away. Dudley quivers, then finally complies. 
 G-go home!
Get out of here!
 Don't you ever speak about that again. You
            understand? 
Don't point that thing at me! 
I SAID, DO YOU UNDERS'IAND?!
What's happening? 
Quiet! The stars go out, plunging them into darkness. Dudley yells in
            fear. Harry turns to the end of the street. Gliding as smooth as death over the street,
            tattered robes drifting in the wind, comes a DEMENTOR. 
Dudley! Run!
Come on!
Dudley, no!
Lumos!
'Expecto Patronum!'
 Bow to death, Harry... 
 Haaaaaaaarry!...
What the hell are those? 
Dementors. Petunia kneels on the ground next to Dudley. 
What happened, Duddikins? Vernon turns on Harry, who hastily lowers his
            wand. 
What the hell is a dementoid? Petunia seizes Dudley and attempts to look
            into his mouth. 
They didn't--? 
No. Vernon shoves a large finger at Harry. 
I want some answers! 
We were attacked. 
By those...things? 
They're evil. If they get the chance, they'll suck your soul out through
            your mouth. 
They guard the wizard prison, Azkaban. 
How do you know that? 
Fought 'em off, eh, Dud? Gave 'em the ol' one-two? 
You can't give a Dementor the 'ol one-two.' 
Why is he all right then? 
Because I used magic to save his life! The street-lights die, plunging the
            street into darkness.
Lumos!
Who are all you lot? 
Quiet, Dursley. 
Harry, douse the light. We're exposed here. 
 Nox.
What are you doing here? 
We're your advanced guard, Harry. Dumbledore just sent us as soon as he
            heard about the attack. We're taking you to safety. We're just waiting for the all
            clear. 
How'd he know? It just happened! 
You didn't think Dumbledore'd let you wander around on your own, did you?
            Lupin indicates Tonks. 
Harry, I don't believe you've met Nymphadora Tonks. She smiles at him. 
Tonks, would you go get Harry's broom from the house? She nods and
               departs.
What's been going on? What's Lord Vol- Three of the advanced guard jump. 
We're not talking about it here, it's too risky. Moody's eye stuck
            backwards in his head. 
Blast it.
Mad-eye, dear, you do realize that's disgusting? 
I want 365 degree visibility on the return trip. 
How are we getting there? 
Brooms. Red sparks fly into the air in the distance. Tonks returns with
            the broom, handing it to Harry. 
There's the first signal. 
Right, let's go. 
On your broom, Harry. Moody is moving around them. 
Form up! Form up around Harry. Make it snappy!
We'll be flying in close-quarters formation. Tonks will be right in front
            of you, keep close to her at all times. 
 Don't stop, and whatever
            you do, don't break formation. If any of us are killed, the rest of you, keep flying.
               
 If that were to happen, the survivors, fly to the east. The rear
            guard is standing by. They will find you. 
Stop being so cheerful, Mad-eye. 
We must be ready. This would be the perfect moment for Voldemort to strike
            Harry. 
Uh, is that very likely? 
No one's going to die. Blue sparks blast into the sky. 
There's the second signal! 
Mount your brooms, everyone. Here we go!
The third signal, everyone. Let's go! They kick off from the ground, which
            is swiftly left behind. 
Stay in formation!
We need more height!
Contacts to the south! 
Mad-eye! You, Tonks, and Lupin take Harry! We'll slow them down! The
            rest of the advanced guard peels away from the group. Harry checks the sky around them.
            It appears to be clear. 
There's the other one, Alastor! The other Dementor emerges very close by
            from a cloud. 
Expecto--! 
Harry, leave it to us! And Lupin peels away, rocketing towards the
            Dementor. 
No!
'Expecto Patronum!'
Get Harry to the safe house! 
Come on, Potter! Keep moving! 
But I can help! 
Potter, getting yourself killed won't do a thing. Now move!
We're not far, now!
Did you get rid of them? 
They're gone, Alastor. 
We're there! 
Prepare for descent! Form up around Harry!
Stay here, Harry.
 
 Right, Harry, this way.
Here, read this.
Come on, inside. Hurry. 
Get in, quick, Harry. Don't touch anything. 
Filth! Scum! Half-breeds, mutants, freaks, begone from this place!
            How dare you befoul the house of my fathers?! 
Shut up, you miserable old hag! Quiet! 
Blood traitor, abomination, shame of my flesh! 
Yes, yes, do shut up! He throws the sheet over the picture, and the yells
            die away.
Was that your--? 
Mother, yes. Dear old mum. 
But...why here? 
This house has been my family's for centuries. It's mine now.
               
 I'm the last of the Blacks. I offered it up as headquarters for,
            well, and Dumbledore accepted. It's about the most useful thing I've been able to do for
            a long while. 
Hello, Harry dear. 
Mrs. Weasley! 
Sirius, the meeting is about to start!
 
 Harry, dear, go on upstairs- quietly, if you please. They're all up
            there. Harry looks up the stairs. 
Harry!
Let him breathe, Hermione! 
Oh, Harry! We've missed you! Are you furious with us, I bet you are! 
HERMIONE!
Good to see you, mate. 
Come on, inside. They enter an adjacent bedroom. INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT
            They sit down on separate beds. 
Sorry we haven't written, Harry, but Dumbledore made us promise not to. 
We wanted to, mate, we really did, but he thought they would get
               intercepted.
Right. 
He thought you would be safest there. 
Yeah, real safe. Attacked by Dementors, that's safe, that is. 
He was so angry when he heard. It was...scary... 
So, why's he keeping me in the dark? Hermione and Ron look awkward. 
Didn't you bother asking? 
We've only seen him twice, and not for very long. He's really busy. 
So I get to spend the summer with the Dursleys while you two are here. 
It's not that fun, mate. Mum won't let us anywhere near the meetings. 
You've still been here! Hermione and Ron are looking aghast at Harry.
            Harry looks away. There is a silence. 
What's been going on? 
We've already told you, we're not privyed to the meetings. But we do know a
            few things. 
Some of the Order are following known Death Eaters, like Lucious
            Malfoy. 
 And they're guarding something. 
What's this Order everyone's talking about? 
The Order of the Phoenix. Dumbledore started it last time to fight
            You-Know-Who. He only reorganized it after last term. Moments later, MRS. WEASLEY opens
            the door to their room. 
You can come down now, the meeting's over. They stand up to go. INT.
            KITCHEN - NIGHT Harry, Ginny, Hermione, Ron, and Mrs. Weasley enter the KITCHEN, which
            has been set up with long tables and chairs.
Arthur- 
Well, the Ministry is furious with you.
 
 You did magic in front of your muggle cousin. 
 SIRIUS
               
 You'll have to go to an disciplinary meeting tomorrow.
 
 I'm not really hungry. I think I'll go to bed. 
You surprise me, Harry. I figured the first thing you'd do is start
            asking about Voldemort.
I wanted to, but I didn't think you'd tell me anything. 
And that was quite right, Harry! You're much to young-- 
He has a right to know, Molly. 
It's not your decision! 
I know what Dumbledore said, but he needs to know something. 

            
 Yeah. 
He's not a child, Molly. 
He's not an adult either! 
 He's not James. 
 I'm fully aware of who he is, Molly. 
I only have Harry's best interests at heart. 
He's not your son. 
Who else does he have, then? Sirius stands, glaring at Mrs. Weasley. 
He's got me. He's like a son to me.
What do you want to know, Harry? 
Where's Voldemort? What's he doing? 
He's hiding for the moment, because the Ministry is ignoring his return
            and he doesn't want that to change. 
 You really messed things up for him last year,
            Harry. 
How? 
The last person You-Know-Who wanted to alert was Dumbledore. 
And what's his plan? 
He's building up his army again, just like before. 
And you're stopping him from gaining followers? 
We're doing our best, but it's proving to be...difficult. 
You see, when the Ministry of Magic insists that Voldemort isn't back. 
But...why? 
Fudge likes being Minister of Magic. If it turns out that Voldemort came
            back under his watch, he'll be sacked. 
But you're telling people, right? Sirius laughed. 
Well, they think I'm a mass- murderer, Lupin is a werewolf, Tonks and
            Arthur would lose their jobs at the Ministry... 
But Dumbledore is doing all he can. 
If he keeps it up, he might end up in Azkaban. And that would give
            You- Know-Who a clear field to-- 
What? 
You-Know-Who wants something. Something he didn't have last time. A
            weapon. 
What kind of weapon? Lupin and Sirius exchange looks. 
I'm sorry, Harry, we can't say anything more. 
Morning, dear! Did you have a good sleep? 
No, my scar kept hurting. 

            
 Probably just nerves... 
Yeah...nerves... 
Good luck, Harry! She hugs Harry.
They'll have to let you off, Harry... You were defending yourself! I
            checked the laws. 
Thanks, Hermione. 
What does he get a hug for? 
 When you have to go to a disciplinary hearing at
            the Ministry of Magic, I'll hug you too. 
Oh, sure, that's why. 
 Ronald Weasley, are you jealous? 
 Me? Jealous?
            Of course not, it just doesn't seem fair that you hug one friend more than the other, is
            all... 
Would you like a hug? 
 No, I'd hate to force you... Harry grins and shakes
            his head. 
Well, come on, Harry. Time to go. 
Bye. He waves, and he and MR WEASLEY depart. EXT. LONDON STREET - DAY The
            street is not very crowded, as the sun rises in the east.
Good, good, not very many Muggles.
Well, come on Harry, in we go.
I do love using the Fellytone! Now, let's see, what's the number
            again... He punches in SIX, TWO, FOUR, FOUR, TWO.
Welcome to the Ministry of Magic. Please state your business. 
Harry Potter, disciplinary hearing. 
Pleas stand by.
Usually I Apparate, but you're too young, so I thought we'd take the
            scenic route.
Keep close, Harry!
Ah, Perkins, good morn- 
Arthur, they've changed the time of Potter's hearing. 
Blast! Dumbledore thought they might try that. 
It started at eight! 
Good lord, that was five minutes ago! Come on, Harry!
Department of Mysteries. 
Department of Mysteries? 
Yep, I've got no idea what they get up to in here, it's top
               secret.
Come on, Harry! 
I've been there before...
Now, Harry, I find that highly unlikely...
There you are, Harry, in you go...good luck... Harry enters the
            chamber. INT. COURTROOM - DAY One side of the courtroom is an elevated zigarat-shaped
            series of seats carved from black stone.
You're late. 
Er...sorry. 
No matter, the accused will take his seat. Harry does so, glancing
            nervously at the chains on it. 
Very well, we are ready to begin. 
Witness for the Defence, Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore.
            Harry turns in his seat.
Ah...you...er...got our message that the time had changed, did you? 

            
 Must have missed it. 
 However, due to a
            fortunate mistake, I arrived at the Ministry three hours early. 
Well. The...ah...charges. He consults his notes. 
The charges against the accused shall now be read into the record: That
            the accused did with deliberation and fore-knowledge of the illegality of his actions,
            produce a patronus charm in full sight of a Muggle. 

            
 You are Harry James Potter? 
Yes. 
And you conjured a patronus on the night of the eleventh of August? 
Yes, but- 
Within full sight of a Muggle? 
Yes, but- 
You produced a Patronus? A fully- formed Patronus, with a clearly-
            defined shape? 
Yes. 
That is most remarkable, Mr. Potter. 
It doesn't matter how impressive it was! 
But I did it because of the Dementors! 
What do you mean? 
My cousin and I were attacked by Dementors. That's why I had to use the
            Patronus, to drive them away. 
Ah, yes, yes, another cock-and-bull story. 
It's the truth! 

            
 Of course it is. 
Dementors in Little Whinging? 
Oh, come now, Susan. He's clearly lying. 
Actually, we have a witness to the presence of the Dementors in
            question. 
We haven't got time to- 
I may be wrong, but I do believe that it says somewhere in the
            Wizagammot Charter of Rights that the Accused has the right to present witnesses to
            prove his or her case? In fact, I do believe I wrote that particular bit myself. 
Very well. Weasley, fetch the witness. Percy goes to the door and lets
            MRS. FIGG in. She stands in front of Harry and Dumbledore nervously. 
Full name? 
Arabella Doreen Figg, resident of Little Whinging. 
So...what is your story? 
I was sitting on my porch when I saw the two Dementors gliding towards the
            two boys. 
What did the Dementors look like? 
Well, they were big and wore great, tattered cloaks. There is some
            murmuring among the Wizengamot at that. 
Anything else? 
I-I felt them. It was horrible...like I would never be happy again. 
Very well, you may go. 
Not very convincing. 
Oh, I disagree. She described their effects very completely. 
So two Dementors just happen to be in Little Whinging? I think not... 
Only if the Dementors are still taking their orders from only the
            Ministry these days. I believe you know my views on this, Cornelius. 
Yes, and they're nothing but bilge, Dumbledore. 
Excuse me, Dumbledore, but did you just accused the Ministry of Magic
            of ordering an attack on this boy? 
If the Dementors are taking their orders from the Ministry
            exclusively, then it must certainly follow logically that someone in the Ministry
            ordered the attack. 
 And in that case, I'm sure the Ministry will
            make a full inquiry. 
Dementors are irrelevant! 
On the contrary, Cornelius. If they were there, then Harry was acting
            in self-defense, which is perfectly allowable under Clause Seven of the Decree of
            Reasonable Restriction of Underaged Wizardry. 
 We are all in
            agreement on this? 
Well, yes, if he's telling the truth! 
You have heard it from eye- witnesses, Cornelius. 
Very well, all for clearing the accused of charges? He glances around the
            room, noting all the hands in the air. 
All opposed? Only a few hands. 
 Fine! Cleared of all charges! 
Excellent.
Harry, you've been let off! That's wonderful! The door opens again
            and the whole of the Wizengamot exits. 
You were tried by the full court? 
I think so, yeah. 
 Well, no matter. Let's go home.
Er...is Percy mad at you? 
Ah...yes...I'm afraid we had a bit of a row. He, well, he sided with
            Fudge and the rest of us sided with Dumbledore, so Percy left.
Well, well, if it isn't Patronus Potter. 
 The
            Minister here was just telling me how very lucky an escape you just had. Quite
            astonishing...snakelike, in fact. 
What are you doing here? 
Come now, Potter, I really don't think that private matters between the
            Minister and myself are any concern of yours. Lucius moves closer to Harry. 
 All you need to concern yourself about are...your
            dreams, Potter. And Lucius smiles malevolently at Harry. Lucius steps back and turns to
            the Minister. 
Shall we continue this in your office, Fudge? 
Certainly. Harry watches them go. 
If he wanted to talk to the Minister, why down here? 
Dunno, Harry. Some things are just beyond comprehension.

            
 I knew it!
FRED, GEORGE, AND GINNY 
 He got off, he got off, he got off!
            Hermione hugs Harry again. Ron glowers at her. 
Settle down, you three!
Sirius, we saw Fudge talking with Lucius Malfoy on Level Nine again.
            Tell Dumbledore, next time he comes in, would you? 
Yeah, absolutely. 
Well, I'd better be off. I've got a bewitched vomiting toilet to deal
            with. 
George, remember that concept. Vomiting Toilet. 
Right you are, Fred. 
Also, I'm covering for Tonks on guard duty later tonight, so I won't
            be back until late.
Harry!
You all right, Harry? 
Yeah...just...my scar...the pain is getting stronger. Sirius gives a
            worried glance to Lupin, who looks grim. INT. BEDROOM - DAY Harry sits on his bunk,
            thinking. Sirius enters the room, but Harry barely reacts, still gazing into space. 
Harry, I've got something that might interest you.
This was the original Order of the Phoenix. Found it while we were
            cleaning. Harry looks down at all the smiling faces. 
There's Mad-eye and Dumbledore, right next to Dedalus Diggle; Marlene
            McKinnon, she was killed two weeks after this was taken...; 
 SIRIUS
               
 then there's Frank and Alice Longbottom, tortured into insanity
            by Death Eaters; Lupin, of course.. 
 Ah, Edgar Bones, they only ever
            found bits of him; Caradoc Dearborn, he vanished six months later...; Hagrid, of course;
            Gideon and Fabian Prewett, it took five Death Eaters to finish those two off; me, of
            course...; and there they are! Harry watches his parents beam up at him. 
My parents. He watches the picture for a long second. 
I miss them, Sirius... 
I know, Harry, I know. I miss them too. He puts his arm around Harry. 
It's not fair that I got to spend so much time with them and you
            didn't... Harry closes his eyes. 
Why'd they have to die, Sirius, why? 
I don't know, Harry. I wish I did, but I don't... There is a long moment
            of silence. 
I know I'm not your father, Harry, but I'll always be there for you, if I
            can help it... 
Thanks.
 That mudblood with the scar, he cries, why
            does he cry so...? 
Kreacher, get out of here! Now! 
Oh, how the old Mistress would weep to see the traitor in her house...
            The elf exits. 
Who..who was that? 
Kreacher. He's been alone with the house for years, he's gone a bit
            funny. 
 You'd better get some rest. Sirius gets up and exits. Ron
            and Hermione burst into the room seconds later. 
Harry, Ron and I, we've been named House Prefects! She hands Harry a
            letter. There are a few seconds of parchment ripping. 
What about you, Harry? But there is no PREFECT BADGE in Harry's letter.
            He shakes his head. 
Are you sure? I would have thought you would get one! 
I'm sure. Nothing.
So...congratulations Ron, Hermione... 
Well...thanks Harry. 
Come on, lets go back downstairs! 
Yes, do go enjoy yourselves.
What is that? 

            
 What? 

            
 That...that...thing! 
Harry, there's nothing there, mate... 
Yes it is, it's right there! He points. Ron shakes his head. 
I see them too, Harry.
Er...you are? 
Luna. Luna Lovegood. 
Well, thanks Luna.
Hagrid's cabin looks deserted. 
I hope he's all right... 
What if he were still on his...
...what if he's still on his mission from Dumbledore? 
Yeah, could be. Moments later the carriages halt, and the students pile
            out. 
I beg a few moments of your attention, as I have a few start of term
            announcements. Right off, our caretaker, the good Mr. Filch, has reminded me for what he
            says is the four-hundred and sixty-second time that he had an annually updated list of
            various banned items, usually introduced by our humour experts Fred and George
               Weasley...
 ...which are posted in an extensive list on the
            door to Mr. Filch's door. Harry grins at Fred and George. 
Also, we have two staffing changes this year. Professor Grubby-Plank
            will be taking the post of Care of Magical Creatures post as Professor Hagrid is
            on...extended leave. Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchange glances. 
Additionally, we have Professor Umbridge, who has kindly agreed to
            fill the post of Defense Against the Dark Arts- At this, UMBRIDGE stands and clears her
            throat. 
Hem, hem, Headmaster, if I could address the school? Dumbledore looks
            taken aback. McGonogall glares at UMBRIDGE. Dumbledore sits down and invites Umbridge
            forward. 
Thank you, Headmaster. Now, how are we all doing tonight? I thought I
            would just say a few words. I am here at the Ministry of Magic's bequest, under
            Educational Decree twenty-two, which states that if the Headmaster of Hogwarts is unable
            to fill any teaching post the Ministry shall select one for the position.
The Ministry has always considered the magical education of our
            children to be of vital importance, and the passing down of this ancient and noble art
            must be given to the next generation, lest it be lost forever... 

            Without progress, stagnation. But progress for progress's sake is to be discouraged, for
            our art requires no tinkering. 
 A balance must be attained, the new
            and the old, permanence and change, tradition and innovation, order and chaos.
               
 There are large changes coming soon, changes walking the fine
            line between order and chaos. Know only that these changes are for the best, and to
            prevent the destruction of our civilization from its own decay. Thank you.
So why didn't your mum want you to come back to Hogwarts, Seamus? 
What? 
Me mam didn't want me to come back to Hogwarts... 
Why? 
Well...because of you... 
What did I do? 
She...well, she figure's you're, well...you're lying about You-Know- Who
            and Dumbledore's a right nutter... 
Where'd she get that from?
So...she believes this stuff? 
Well...yeah... 
But...but you believe me, don't you? Seamus looks away. Harry turns and
            storms out of the DORM. EXT. HOGWARTS - NIGHT Harry sits on the top of the ASTRONOMY
            TOWER, looking out over the LAKE and the FORBIDDEN FOREST in the distance, Hagrid's hut
            dark and forboding at the edge of the FOREST.
No one believes me, Hedwig. No one...
I'm alone... Hedwig takes off into the night, flying over the castle.
            DISSOLVE 
Sorry, Professor... 
Hmm, let's see, five points from Gryffindor for coming in late. Harry
            frowns, but sits down next to Ron and Hermione. 
Now, as I was saying before Mr. Potter interrupted with his antics,
            your Defense Against the Dark Arts education has been rather fragmented and disjointed
            in your past classes, hasn't it? 
 Know now that this is about to be
            rectified. 

         
 I will be following a pre-approved
            Ministry-prepared, theory-centered Defense lesson plan.
Copy this down.
Yes? 
I wanted to know something about your course aims. 
Well, they should be perfectly self- evident. 
Well, I don't think they are. They say nothing about actually doing
            spells. 
 I can imagine no circumstance in my class where
            you would need to use spells, my dear! 
But surely the whole point of Defense against the dark arts is
            practical application? 
Miss Granger, this class has been approved by Ministry experts. Are you
            a Ministry Expert? 
No, but- 
Then you have no business challenging those who are. We will be
            learning about spells in a safe, risk-free environment- 
But we've got O.W.L.s coming up! You expect us to do the spells with no
            practice? 
What good's theory in the real world? 
This is school, not the real world, Mr. Potter. There is nothing out
            there waiting to get you. 
What about Lord Voldemort? The whole class flinched at the sound of the
            name. 
Ten points from Gryffindor, Mr. Potter. Let me set the record straight.
            She stands behind her desk, leaning on her knuckles. 
Some of you have been told that a certain dead wizard has returned.
            This is a lie.
Mr. Potter, you have just landed yourself in detention!
So, according to you, Cedric Diggory dropped dead? Or are you calling me a
            murderer? 
The boy's death was a tragic accident.
It was MURDER! I saw it happen!
Mr Potter, you have earned yourself a week's worth of detentions! 
Yeah, talk to somebody who cares. Voldemort killed Cedric, and you know
               it.
That goes to Professor McGonogall, dear. Harry rips it from her hand
            and storms out of the room. INT. HALLS - DAY Harry storms down the halls, turns a
            corner, and practically kicks open the door to McGonogall's office. 
Is this true? Did you shout at Professor Umbridge? 
Yeah. But she called me a liar! 
My dear boy, do use your common sense! Umbridge is reporting directly
            to Fudge. She is here to...interfere...with Dumbledore. And things could get much worse,
            trust me. 
 Use caution, always, Potter. Do not mess with Dolorus
            Umbridge, she is dangerous. The Order's hands are tied at Hogwarts, Harry. If you get
            too deep into trouble, we may not be able to get you out. Do you understand? 
Yes, Professor. 
Good. Off you go. 
How can Dumbledore let that horrible woman teach? And when we're taking
            our OWL tests too! 
You reckon she's here to spy on us? 
Well, not us specifically, but definitely Dumbledore and the Order. At
            that moment, ANGELINA JOHNSON comes up to them. 
 Well, way to go, Potter. Your detention is at
            the same time as Quidditch practice! 
Oh! Sorry... 
Yeah, well, you're going to have to get out of it somehow. We're
            holding tryouts for Keeper now Wood's gone, and I wanted to have the whole team there. 
I'll never get out of it, Angelina. 
Well, just...don't do it again! And she storms off. INT. COURTYARD -
            DAY Harry, Ron, and Hermione are heading back inside to the GRYFFINDOR COMMON ROOM. The
            sun is setting in the distance. 
Well, Harry, shall we start on Snape's report? 
Later, I've got detention. 
Good luck, Harry. 
Thanks. 
Ah, Potter. Sit down. Harry sits in a chair right in front of her desk. 
You're going to be doing lines, tonight, Mr. Potter, and you'll be
            using this quill. The QUILL was BLOOD-RED and sinister looking.
You will write "I will not tell lies" until I tell you to stop.
            Understand? 
There's no ink. 
Oh...you won't need ink.
Problem, Potter?
That's enough for this evening. Same time, tomorrow, and we'll see if
            we can get the message to sink in a bit deeper.
Hey, Harry. He looks up from his parchment. 
Have you seen Ron? I can't find him anywhere. Harry shakes his head. 
No, I haven't. 
He's been acting fishy all week. He's up to something. Harry packs up
            his parchments. 

            
 Uh huh.
Another night, another detention. 
That's enough for tonight, Potter. Let's see that hand.
Harry! I tried out for Quidditch Keeper at the tryouts! I'm on the
               team!
Harry--bloody hell!
He's got to be taken to the hospital wing. 
 No. Can't give...Umbridge the satisfaction... 
Umbridge did this? 
You said she was making you do lines! They settle Harry back down. 
She is. But the quill has some sort of spell on it. It uses blood for ink. 
That old hag! She's sick! Hermione looks horrified. 
Oh, Harry. You've got to go to Dumbledore. You can't keep this up. 
No, I'm telling anyone. 
Harry, I really think you should tell-- 
No!
I don't need his help. I don't need anyone's help. He pushes past them and
            limps up into the boys' dorm. 
Hagrid's still not back yet. I hope he's all right. 
I've asked Sirius about it.
Harry, you can't write to him! Owls are being intercepted, it isn't
            safe. 
Don't worry, Hermione, I wrote it in code. Anyway, I figured I need to
            tell someone about Umbridge. My scar hurt again last night in detention. 
Always knew she was a bit fishy. 
You think she's working for You- Know-Who? 
Well, it's a possibility, isn't it? Hermione looks dubious. 
I suppose so. He could have her under the Imperious Curse, though it's
            unlikely. Dumbledore'd know. Harry leans in even closer. 
Yeah, but Dumbledore didn't have a choice, did he? She'd been sent here by
            the Ministry. Hermione unfurls a copy of the Daily Prophet. 
Anything about Harry? 
No, nothing. 
 Wait! Look at this!
 "Trespass at Ministry. Sturgis Podmore has
            appeared before the Wizengamot with charges of trespass and attempted robbery at the
            Ministry of Magic on the 31st of August. He was arrested when found trying to break into
            a top-security door at one in the morning. Podmore was convicted and sentenced to six
            months in Azkaban." 
Sturgis Podmore? 
Wait, he's one of the Order! Hermione glares at Ron. 
Quiet! 
Do you s'pose it was a frameup? They stop talking. Dean Thomas walks by. 
Come on, we'll be late for Charms if we don't hurry. 
Right.
You go on without me. I want to send this. They part ways. 
Hedwig!
 
 Oh...hi. Didn't think anyone else would be up here. She moves to a brown
            school owl. There is an awkward silence. 
Have you found a new Keeper for Quiddich? 
Yeah, my friend Ron Weasley. She ties the package to the owl. 
He any good? 
Well, he made the team. I missed the tryouts. She lets go of the owl and
            it flies out the window. 
Yeah, Umbridge. You were really brave, standing up to her. Harry
            straightens, smiling. 
Yeah...well, it was the truth. The owlry door bursts open again. ARGUS
            FILCH charges in. 
Right, Potter. I'll have what you're sending. 
What? 
I have had a tip-off that you are ordering a large quantity of Dungbombs!
            Now hand it over. 
You're too late, it's gone. Filch looks furious. 
Yeah, I saw him send it. Filch regards her for a moment, then turns back to
            Harry. 
I get a single whiff of a Dungbomb in this castle, Potter...and you're
            mine. He turns and departs.
Um, you weren't ordering dungbombs, were you? 
No. 
I wonder why he'd think you were. 
 Well, see you, Harry.
            She turns and leaves the Owlry. Harry smiles. 
 What a load of rubbish! 
You, ordering dungbombs. I mean, really. 
Yeah, it doesn't make any sense. 
Unless whoever tipped Filch off was interested in reading your mail,
            Harry. I mean, doesn't it seem a little too coincidental that Filch was tipped off when
            you happened to be sending a message to Sirius? Harry looks thoughtful. 
Yeah, that does seem weird. You figure its Umbridge? 
I don't know. Just then Malfoy appears close by. 
Hey, Weasley! Nice job out on the field today! You'll be our best player
            on the pitch! 
Get bent, Malfoy!
No, he's right. I'm useless out there. Complete rubbish. 
It's your first practice. Don't worry about it. Ron looks unusually pale. 
I'm gonna make a fool of myself out there. Harry gasps and rubs at his scar. 
Are you all right, Harry? 
Yeah. Its just...the pain's getting stronger. Ron and Hermione exchange
            glances. 
I don't know how we're ever going to pass our O.W.L.s in Defense
            against the dark arts without any practice! That Umbridge woman is so... She looks at
            Harry and Ron. 
We've got to do something about her. The boys stare at her. 
Yeah, well, poison should do the trick. 
Don't be silly, Ron. Not her, I meant her teaching. We're not going to
            learn anything in that class. 
Yeah, that's true. 
Anyway, I thought we should do it ourselves.
 
 Defense Against the Dark Arts. We'd teach ourselves. 
I don't know...
Hermes?
It's from Percy! 
Read it. 
"Dear Ron, congratulations on becoming a Prefect. For some time I was
            worried you would take the 'Fred and George' route instead of following in my footsteps.
               

         
 You can imagine my relief that this is not the case."
            He looks incredulously at Harry and Hermione. 
Keep reading. 
"Given your attachment to using me as a role model, I will give you a bit of
            advice from one respecter of authority to another. 
 It is likely
            that you have been seeing quite a lot of Harry Potter of late. I must recommend you
            break ties with that boy as soon as possible. He may be Dumbledore's favorite, but
            Dumbledore may not be in charge at Hogwarts much longer. Your loyalties should lie with
            the Ministry of Magic, not Dumbledore and Potter's personality cult.
               
 Please do not fear breaking ties with Potter. If trouble
            arrises, go to Dolores Umbridge, a truly delightful woman. 
 I hope
            you will carefully consider my advice to you, Ron. Don't let the dangerous errors of
            Dumbledore, Potter, and unfortunately our parents lure you into destroying a perfectly
            good career. Percy." Ron looks up, aghast. 
Well, if you want to, ah, "break ties" with me, I swear I won't get
            violent. Ron tears the letter in half. 
He is the world's biggest git! He hurls the pieces into the fireplace. 
Watch it!
 Sirius?
 Right you are. Got you letter and though we should talk in person.
            
 What was that?
Letter from Percy. 
Yeah, full of the usual rubbish. 
Except he did mention that Dumbledore might not be in charge here much
            longer. 
It doesn't surprise me. Fudge wants Dumbledore out. 
Why? 
He's worried Dumbledore is trying to turn the students against the
            Ministry. 
Well, that would explain why Umbridge isn't teaching us anything useful
            in Defense Against the Dark Arts. 
Exactly. The Ministry doesn't want you trained in combat. 
What does he think Dumbledore is going to do, raise an army? 
That's exactly what he's worried about. Fudge is getting more paranoid
            about Dumbledore every day. There is a nervous silence in the room. 
What do you know about Umbridge? 
She's a nasty piece of work. Apparently she hates part-humans. 
Could she be a Death Eater? 
The Order seriously doubts it. She's no picnic, but she's no Death Eater
            either. 
But she's evil. 
The world isn't split into the Order and the Death Eaters, Harry. Harry
            sits back, looking unsatisfied. 
As to your question about Hagrid, well, no one is really sure what
            happened to him, actually. He was supposed to be back a while ago. 
What? 
Dumbledore's not worried about him, though. Hagrid's tough. He'll be all
            right. 
But if he was supposed to be back by now... 
Look, asking questions about him will only make it more obvious that he's
            not back.
Get out of here!
I cannot believe it! Harry and Ron glance at her. She slaps the paper
            down on the table. 
 "Ministry Passes Educational Decree Number
            Twenty-Three: Dolores Umbridge Appointed Hogwarts High Inquisitor"? He looks at Harry
            and Hermione. 
What's that mean? 
It says here that the High Inquisitor has the power to inspect all of
            the teachers. 
You're kidding! 
That's not all. The High Inquisitor also has the power to sack teachers
            as well. Fred and George march by. 
So, seen the news have you? 
Personally, I envy you three. 
Why's that? 
Umbridge is inspecting McGonagall in your period. That old toad won't
            know what hit her. He looks at Fred wistfully. 
Oh, to be a youth again, to experience the innocent glee of watching
            Umbridge be destroyed by the greatest Head of Gryffindor this century. 
Well, we'll expect a full report after. 
Complete with facial expressions. And they wander off. 
Greetings my children. I sense even now that many of you have already
            made the transition into the beyond! Umbridge smiles, toad-like. 
Today we will be continuing our interpretation of prophetic dreams.
            Please divide into your groups and discuss your recent night time visions using the text
            as a guide.
And how long have you been at this post? 
Near to sixteen years I have been the guide to young seers possessed
            of the Inner sight. Umbridge makes a note. 
I understand you are the descendent of the famous Seer Cassandra
               Trelawney?
 
 And you are the first since Cassandra to have the Second Sight? 
These things tend to skip...several...generations. 
Of course. She makes another note. 
Now, if you would kindly make a prediction for me? Trelawney seems to
            swell with indignation. 
The Inner Eye does not See upon command!
My dear boy, your dream diary, if you please!
My dear boy! My poor boy! These dreams are evil portends! Harry looks
            at the page. 
 "Dreamt I was at breakfast eating oatmeal"?
Yes, yes, oatmeal! Are you telling me you cannot see the signs? The
            foretelling of suffering and death? 
Er... 
Perhaps you are not as in the beyond as the others. She sweeps from
            Harry's table. 
Well, if that's the best you can do, Professor, I will be going. 
Where are we going, Hermione?
There we are. 
"The Hog's Head," Hermione? She leads them towards it. 
Come on, I'll explain in a minute. 
Hermione, what's going on? 
These are some people I mentioned my Defense Against the Dark Arts idea
            with. She sits down. Harry and Ron follow. 
You mean about us teaching ourselves? 
Hey, Harry. 
Hey, Neville. 
 It's good to see that the horned snorkle-stacks
            haven't gotten you yet, Harry. Harry looks confused for a moment. 
Uh...same to you, Luna. Hermione beats on the table to quiet everyone. 
Hi, everyone. I thought it would be good if we met and talked over how
            we wanted to teach ourselves Defense Against the Dark Arts. 
 Because
            we need to learn it properly, not the rubbish Umbridge is doing. 
Hear, hear! 
Obviously, this will help us pass our O.W.L.s, but more importantly, it
            gives us the ability to protect ourselves from...Lord Voldemort.
That's the first time you've said his name. Hermione looks pleased. 
How do we know You-Know-Who's really back? 
Dumbledore believes he is. 
That's true, but I think we're drifting from the purpose-- 
It's okay, Hermione. He looks at the crowd. 
I believe Voldemort's back because I fought him last year. Dumbledore's
            already told the school that. If you didn't believe him you won't believe anyone. There
            is a tense silence. 
Well...anyway...uh, I think that in order to learn properly we'll need
            a teacher. 
But we're all students. None of us has the experience to-- 
Someone here does.
Me? 
I for one would like to know why Potter's qualified and the rest
            of us aren't. 
 Well, he's only confronted You-Know- Who
            himself four times and lived to talk about it. 
One of the portraits said you'd killed a Basilisk in the Chamber of
            Secrets with that sword in Dumbledore's office. 
Uh...well, yeah, I did. 
Blimey, Harry... Half the crowd looks awestruck. 
Wow... 
Can't forget that he saved the Sorcerer's Stone from You-Know-Who in his
            first year.
And last year he got through the Triwizard Tournament! There are mutters of
            agreement. 
Not to mention you dueled with You- Know-Who all alone and he still couldn't
            kill you! 
And you fought off those dementors that attacked you this summer. Hermione
            looks tremendously pleased. 
So all in favor of taking lessons from Harry?
Where are we going to meet? 
What about an unused classroom? 
That might work. I'll look into that. 
Ok, good.
I think we should put our names down, so we know who was here. Suddenly
            people look uncomfortable. 
I don't know...if it were found...I mean, Umbridge wouldn't like what
            we're doing... 
Honestly, Ernie, do you think I'd just leave it lying around? Besides,
            its enchanted.
Also, what should we call ourselves? 
What about the Anti-Unbridhe League? 
We need something that doesn't give away what we're doing. 
I think it should be Dumbledore's Army. There is excited agreement. Harry
            smiles at her. 
Dumbledore's Army it is, then. The D.A. for short. Fred and George
            stand, along with Lee. 
We'll let you know when we're going to meet. The meeting breaks up.
         
I think that went well. 
Yeah. 
And did you see Cho, Harry? 

            
 What about her? 
Well, she couldn't keep her eyes off you, could she?! Harry gives a
            little smile. 
Harry, you won't believe...that Umbridge woman...this is too much!! 
What's she done now? 
Follow me. 
"By order of the Hogwarts High Inquisitor: All student organizations,
            societies, teams, groups, and clubs are henceforth disbanded. Permission to reform must
            be approved by High Inquisitor Umbridge. No student organization can exist without the
            knowledge and approval of the High Inquisitor. Any student found to be a part of an
            illegal organization will be expelled immediately." Angelina is furious just looking at
            it again. 
She refused to allow us to reform the Gryffindor team. We had to go to
            Dumbledore to get her to allow it. Harry is extremely angry. 
Not only that, but what about the D.A.? 
This isn't a coincidence. He looks at Ron and Hermione. 
 She knows.
She can't!
 Look, we don't know how many people could have overheard our meeting
            and told her. 
Or somebody at the meeting could have blabbed to her. 
No, they couldn't have. The parchment we all signed was enchanted, like
            I said. No one can betray the D.A. without us knowing. Harry stops pacing and grins at
            Hermione. 
What would we do without you, Hermione? She beams at him.
 
 She's hurt! Hedwig hoots softly. 
She doesn't look very good. 
Harry, you'd better take her to Professor Grubby-Plank. She'll know
            what to do. Harry scoops Hedwig up and runs through the portrait hole. 
Potter! He stops and turns to her. 
Where on earth are you going at this time of night? 
It's Hedwig. I think she's been attacked. 
What?
Yes, I think you might be right, Potter. She looks at Harry. 
Where was she coming from? 
London. He gives her a significant look. She nods. 
Well, give her to me. I'll run her down to Professor Grubby-Plank.
            Harry hands Hedwig to her. She takes the owl carefully. 
There you are.
Bear in mind, Potter, that channels of communication in and out of
            Hogwarts are being watched, won't you? 
Yes, Professor. 
Good. Now, off to bed.
Mr. Harry Potter! Harry turns to see Dobby standing in the middle of the
            room. 
Dobby! What are you doing here? 
Dobby is cleaning, sir. He seemed to want to say something more. 
What is it, Dobby. 
Dobby...Dobby wishes he could help Harry Potter. Dobby has heard him
            muttering in his sleep. 
Don't worry about it, Dobby. But I don't think you can help me. Dobby's
            ears droop.
Actually, there is something you can do, Dobby. Dobby brightens instantly. 
I need a room where twenty-eight people can practice Defense Against the
            Dark Arts without the teachers knowing. Especially Professor Umbridge. Dobby leaps into
            the air and claps his hands. 
Dobby knows of the perfect place, Harry Potter! It is the Room of
            Requirement, sir. You can only use the room in times of great need. Whatever you need
            will be there for you, Harry Potter. 
That's brilliant, Dobby! Dobby looks pleased. 
Dobby can show you now, if you wish, Harry Potter. Harry thinks for a
            moment. 
Better not, Dobby. School is pretty intense right now. We'll do it in a
            few months, before the holidays. 
...and Slytherin is up forty to ten. Alica with the quaffle!
Weasley is our King, Weasley is our King, He always lets the Quaffle
            in, Weasley is our King!
Just ignore them, Ron! Ron does not acknowledge him.
 Another ten points to Slytherin. The score is now
            fifty-ten in favor of Slytherin. Malfoy pulls up on his broom near Ron as well. 
I should thank you, Weasley. You're definitely our best player!
Harry, are you all right? He is helped to his feet by Fred and George. 
Bet you loved that, Potter! Saved Weasley's neck, didn't you? The
            Gryffindors ignore him. 
I've never seen a worse Keeper! Maybe we should add some more verses to
            our little song. About his filthy mother! George tries to leap at Draco. Harry and Fred
            hold him back. 
And his pathetic loser of a father too!
But then, you like the Weasleys, don't you? How can you stand the stink? I
            guess it reminds you of your own dear mother!
Impedimenta!
 What on earth do you two think you're
               doing?
Don't make me stupify you, Potter!
My office. Now. 
In all my thirty-nine years at this school, I have never seen such a
            disgusting display. 
Malfoy provoked us. 
Of course he wanted to provoke you! He'd just lost! She stares at
            both of them. 
I cannot express in words the disappointment I feel right now.
What is it, Dolores? 
I thought you might need some additional authority in dealing with
            these two. 
You thought wrong. Now kindly remove yourself from my office. She
            turns back to George and Harry. 
Now, I don't care what Malfoy said. Your performance out there was
            shameful. Fifty points from Gryffindor, and I'm giving you both a week's worth of
            detentions. 
I hardly think that's an adequate punishment for this. She holds up a
            parchment. 
Educational Decree Twenty-Five. It gives me, as High Inquisitor, the
            power to give punishments and privileges, and to alter those given out to students by
            other members of the staff. She turns to Harry and George. 
So, I think a life-long ban from playing quidditch should do the trick
            for both of these. Oh, and this one's twin as well. He was going to attack Malfoy as
            well. Harry and George are stunned. 
Ban us...for life. 
Yes, indeed, Mr. Potter. She moves towards them. 
Ah, I'll take your brooms as well. She confiscates the brooms too. 
Well, have a wonderful day. She sweeps from the office. Harry looks to
            McGonagall. 
You've--! 
My hands are tied, Potter. 
I can't believe it...three players banned for life in one day... 
I'm going to resign. Harry is slumped low in a chair. 
You can't! 
I'm horrible! I should never have joined. 
If you quit, we'll be out four players! Ron looks miserable. 
This is the worst day of my life. Hermione is staring out of the window. 
I know something that could cheer you up. 
Hermione, give it up. 
Hagrid's back! 
Hagrid, what happened to you? 
I've fine, I tell yeh! 
Come off it, Hagrid! We're not blind! 
Was it because of the giants? There is a silence. 
Can' answer tha', I'm afraid. Top secret, that is. Business of the Order. 
We know you were looking for giants, Hagrid. Dumbledore said so last year. 
Oh. Well, yeah, I was, then. Went with Madame Maxime. Took us a month to
            get to their camp. 
A month? 
O' course! Can' do magic, not with the Ministry followin' us all the way.
            Plus, giants aren't fond o' wizards. Don' trust 'em. 
So what did you do when you found them? 
Waited 'till mornin' an' then marched righ' in. 
 We gave 'em a gift, jus' like Dumbledore said. Gave
            'em a branch o' Gubraithian fire, Everlasting Flame. 
 Giants love
            magic, see, jus' not too fond o' wizards. Nuthin' a giant loves better than
               magic.
 What happened then? 
 We sat down, an' had a talk. Well, mostly they
            listened good. But there were good signs. 
 Well, they did 'till tha'
            night. Tha's when everythin' went wrong.
 There were a coup. Nex' mornin' there were a new
               chief.
 We went back ter see what we could do with this new
               chief.
 An' then things got even worse. Death Eaters arrived,
            an' the new chief were all happy ter be seein' them!
 We figured, jus' cause some o' the giants were
            favorin' You-Know-Who don't mean all of 'em were. The coup ha' driven the ol' chief's
            supporters into some caves, so we wen' in after 'em. Maxime and Hagrid walk into a dark
            cave, wands glowing. 
 You went into caves looking for giants? 
 We foun' enough, an' they seemed interested--at
            first. Then the new chief's lot raided the caves. Tweren't many survivors, an' none o'
            them wanted anythin' to do with us after tha'. 
So...no giants are coming? 
Well, not righ' away. We brought our message, an' I expec' a fair few'll
            remember it afore teh end comes. 
Glad to see all of you could find this place all right. 
Hey, Harry, what is all this stuff?
Loads of Defense Against the Dark Arts equipment. Hopefully we'll be able
            to get to all of it before the end of term. He paces in front of them. 
You need to understand something before we start, though. Defending
            yourself from the Dark Arts has less to do with magical ability and more to do with
            thinking fast and a lot of luck. 
 We'll be doing Expelliarmus
            tonight, though hopefully we can move on to other things if we have time. 
Oh please. Professor Lockhart taught us that in second year. 
Lockhart didn't teach as much as prune himself. 
Besides, it works. I used it against You-Know-Who last June. It saved my
            life. Zacharias falls silent. 
Right. Well, let's split into pairs and give it a go. 
Expelliarmus! Ron's wand flips from his hand across the room. 
Well done, Neville! He shouts down the others. 
Look here, you lot! Neville's really got the hang of this one. 
 Go ahead again. Fred tosses Ron's wand to him. Neville swirls his
            wand. 
Expelliarmus! Ron's wand does it again. 
I did it! I did it! Harry claps him on the shoulder. 
Never forget this spell, Neville. It could save your live some day. He
            moves to the front of the room again. 
Okay, everyone. We've done a lot today, and I've seen some great
            improvement. That's it for now. We'll meet back here, same time next week!
What's wrong with him?
Get McGonagall! Go! Neville turns and runs out of the dorms. 
Harry! HARRY!
Potter!
Wake up, Potter. Wake up. Please... Harry's eyes open. He sits up,
            looking frantic. 
Mr. Weasley's been attacked! 
You dreamed this, Potter? 
No, I saw it happen! I...I was there... Ron is looking pale. 
You're sure this happened, Potter? 
 Yes! We've got to do something or he will die! 
We're going to see the Headmaster, Potter. 

            Weasley, you'd best come too. 
Professor McGonagall, and...ah...
What can I do for you? 
Well, Potter has had some kind of nightmare... 
It wasn't a nightmare! Well, I was asleep, but it wasn't a normal dream.
            It was...well, real. I saw, well--Mr. Weasley has been attacked by a giant snake. Ron is
            looking very pale. 
How did you see this? How were you positioned when you saw it? 
Oh. Uh...I was the snake. I saw it from the snake's perspective. 
Is Arthur seriously injured? 
Yes!
You were listening? 
Naturally. 
Raise the alarm. We must make sure Arthur is found by the right
               people.
Many of our previous headmasters and mistresses have portraits in
            other institutions, allowing them to move between them. He motions for all of them to
            sit. They sit. Dumbledore moves to Fawkes. 
Fawkes, we will need a warning. The PHOENIX vanishes in a blast of
               fire.
Naturally, naturally. 
 But in essence divided?
            Harry and Ron exchange confused looks. Everard returns to his portrait. 
What news? 
I shouted until someone came. They carried him up seconds ago. He
            doesn't look good. Covered in blood... Dilys returns to her portrait at this time. 
Dumbledore, I've just seen them arrive at St. Mungos. Apperated there
            moments ago. He looks really bad. 
Good. 

            

         
 Minerva, the rest of the Weasleys will need to
            be awoken. She nods and departs. Dumbledore again turns to the portraits hanging on the
            wall. 
Phineas. 
Phineas, I need you to visit your other portrait. Tell Sirius what
            happened and that we are coming to stay for a while. 
It's late, Dumbledore... Dumbledore stares at him. 
I'm going, I'm going... He vanishes. Dumbledore takes a black pot and
            taps it with his wand. 
"Portus." McGonagall returns with Ginny, Fred, and George in tow. 
Harry, what's happening-- 
Your father has been injured in the course of his work for the Order.
            He is alive and arrived at St. Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries only
            moments ago. He picks up the pot and steps around the desk. 
We, however, are going to Sirius's house until the morning. We're
            merely waiting for Phineas to return.
Fawkes's warning. Umbridge knows you're out of bed. Minerva, head her
            off. Tell her anything you can think of. McGonagall departs again. Phineas returns to
            his portrait. 
He says he'd be delighted. Dumbledore beckons everyone over to him. 
We're going by Portkey. They all grab the pot, and VANISH. 
There you are.
We've got to go to St. Mungo's. 
No, you can't. 
We can go where we please. 
We can't go yet. It would look to suspicious if you lot showed up fifteen
            minutes after Arthur arrives because Harry's been seeing visions of things happening
            hundreds of miles from Hogwarts.
That's our father out there dying! 
I can't let you leave. I'm sorry.
You don't even care! You wouldn't even understand! Sirius stares at him
            incredulously. 
I was part of the first Order. I lost my best friends to You-Know- Who.
            His eyes flick to Harry. 
He's all I have left of them. Believe me, I don't want Arthur to die.
               
 But there are some things worth dying for!
Mum! 
Your father's alive. He's going to make it. There is relief
            evident on all of their faces. Harry turns and leaves, re-entering the kitchen. 
Sirius, I-- He stops. Sirius looks at him. 
You can tell me, Harry. 
When I saw the attack, well, I was the snake.
 
 I felt the fangs like they were mine, saw through the snake's eyes like
            they were mine... Sirius looks concerned. 
I think I might be going mad. There is a horrible silence. Sirius looks
            uncomfortable. 
Nonsense. You're just tired. You've had a rough night. 
But what if there's a snake inside me? 
You've told Dumbledore this? 
 Then there's
            nothing to worry about. 
We're here to see Arthur Weasley.
This way, come on! 
We'll wait outside at first, Molly. It should be family first.
Don't be silly, Harry. You too. And she ushered him inside. 
Hullo, everyone! Mrs. Weasley bends down and kisses Arthur. 
How are you, dear? 
I am absolutely fine. If they could take the bandages off, I'd walk out
            of here in a jiffy. He hugs Ginny with his good arm. 
How come they haven't taken them off, then? 
Oh, I start bleeding like mad. The snake had some strange poison in it.
            Keeps the wounds open. But they'll find a cure, don't you doubt. George leans in close. 
What were you doing when it happened, dad? 
That's my own business. 
You were guarding it, weren't you? This weapon thing? 
That's enough! She looks at Arthur. 
Moody and Tonks are outside, Arthur. They'd like a word. She looks
            at her children. 
All of you, out, if you please. They turn and leave. Mr Weasley
            calls Harry back. 
Harry, stay a moment. Harry returns to the bed. 
I never thanked you properly. 
There's no need-- 
But there is, Harry. If you hadn't had your vision, no one would have
            found me in time. So...thank you. Harry smiles, then departs. 
...we searched the whole floor, Arthur, but we couldn't find that snake.
            Why a snake, anyway? 
He probably sent it as a lookout. See what he's up against. That's the
            closest he's ever gotten to it. 
 So, Potter says he saw the whole
            thing? 
Yes. You know, Dumbledore seems like he's been waiting for
            something like this to happen. When I spoke to him this morning, he seemed very worried
            about Harry. 
He should be. I mean, if You-Know- Who is really possessing him... Moody
            trails off. 
 They turn.
 Professor Lockhart! Lockhart looks puzzled. 
Professor? Me? Did I really? Well, I expect I was hopeless at it! He
            rubs his hands together briskly. 
Now, I'll expect all of you will be wanting my autograph? 
Uh, sure... Just then, a HEALER emerges from a DOUBLE-DOOR nearby. 
Ah, there you went, Gildroy. She comes up to them and gently takes his
            elbow. 
He keeps wandering off, handing out autographs, don't you know? It's a
            good sign toward recovering his memory, the poor dear. 
Yeah, sorry about that, mate. Lockhart peers at him. 
Have we met? 
Yeah, it was my wand that backfired on you. 
Was it? What a coincidence!
This is our long-term resident ward, for permanent spell damage. Well, I
            must go... She bustles away. 
Come along, Neville. Harry and the others turn. 
Hey, Neville! Neville turns beet-red, and looks away. His GRANDMOTHER looks
            at the three of them. 
Friends of yours, Neville? 
 Ah, yes, Harry
            Potter. Good to meet you, finally. And a Weasley. She turns to Hermione 
And you must be Miss Granger. Neville's mentioned you. 
Who're you visiting, Neville? Mrs. Longbottom turns to Neville. 
You haven't told them? 
Told us what? 
Neville's dear parents were tortured into insanity by You-Know-
            Who before he disappeared. Aurors, you know, very well respected.
I never knew...Poor Neville. 
Are you all right, Harry dear? You look like you're going to be
               sick.
Running away, are we? He turns to the portrait of Phineas. 
I have to. 
You know, I thought Gryffindors had to be brave. 
I won't hurt anybody else. 
I see. You are running away out of nobility. You know, that's why I
            hated teaching. Young people always think they know what's best, as if no one else could
            possibly understand things better. 
 
I've brought a message from Dumbledore. Harry stops and looks at him. 
What is it? 
Dumbledore says, 'Stay where you are.' 
That's it? Stay there while the grown-ups sort things out? 
When in all your life has listening to Dumbledore ever led you into
            trouble? Whatever his reasons, he has your best interests at heart, Potter. Phineas
            moves off the portrait frame and vanishes. 
Fine! Go! And tell Dumbledore thanks for nothing! 
 
 Get out!
 No. 
 Ginny, I'm dangerous. You can't be around me. 
Did you forget that I've been possessed by You-Know-Who before? 
 
I forgot. 
Lucky you. Anyway, that's what I wanted to talk to you about.
               
 Can you remember everything you've done this year? There aren't
            any blank spots in your memory? 
No, I don't think so. 
Then You-Know-Who has never possessed you, Harry. She sits down on the bed
            next to him. 
I don't know what's going on with you right now, but possession's not one
            of them. You're not dangerous. 
 

            
 Thanks, Ginny. 
Don't mention it. 
 
Harry, have you seen Kreacher? I haven't seen him for days now. 
Haven't seen him. 
Oh well. Maybe he's crawled up into the air ducts and died...mustn't get
            my hopes up though. 
 
Potter, excellent. I'd like a word. He marches over to the table and sits. 
Sit, Potter. 
You know, I don't like people giving orders in my house. 
How unfortunate for you. Now kindly get out. My instructions from
            Dumbledore are to talk with Potter alone. 
I'm his godfather. I think I'll stay. 
 
Very well, then. I know how you like to pretend you're useful. Sirius
            stiffens, but ignores the jab. 
It is the Headmaster's wish that I teach you Occlumency, Potter. 
What's that? Snape sneers. 
Occlumency. It is an ancient form of magic that allows you to defend your
            mind from external intrusion. 
 We begin at six-o-clock on Monday,
            Potter. Snape stands. 
Well, unlike Sirius here, I don't have unlimited leisure time. 
Just a second, Snape. If I hear that you're using this to give Harry a
            hard time, you'll have me to answer to. Snape sneers again. 
How touching. Yet Potter is incredibly like his father. Criticism simply
            bounces off of him.
I've warned you, Snivellus. Dumbledore may think you've reformed, but I
            know better... Snape pushes him out of the way. 
Touch me one more time, Black, and you won't touch anything again. He
            sweeps back to the door and departs. 
 Hi, Harry.
 There is an awkward silence. 
Er...bye then. She starts to walk by. 
Hey Cho! She turns to him. 
Well, uh, Valentine's Day is the same day as our next Hogsmead visit. She
            blushes harder. 
Well, uh, would you like to, you know, go with me? 
 Sure!
 She smiles at him and walks away. 
Sit, Potter. Harry does so. 
As you are well aware, I will be teaching you Occlumency. The headmaster
            feels you should learn this form of magic to defend yourself against the Dark Lord, who
            is skilled at Legilimency. 
What's that, Professor? 
Legilimency is the ability to extract thoughts and feelings from others. 
Voldemort can read minds? 
As usual, you have all the subtlety of a stone wall, Potter.
               

         
 The mind is not a book, of which any page can be
            examined. The mind is complex and multi-layered. 
So he could read our minds right now? 
Eye contact is normally required for Legilimency to work. In your case,
            however, things are somewhat different. Your scar has forged a connection between you
            and the Dark Lord. 
 When your mind is most relaxed, such as during
            sleep, you receive the Dark Lord's thoughts and feelings. The Headmaster believes that
            it is inadvisable for this to continue. 
But hasn't it helped so far? I mean, it saved Mr. Weasley's life, didn't
            it? 
Yes, it did, but at the expense of our advantage. The connection between
            you was so powerful during your vision of the snake that the Dark Lord became aware of
            it. The Headmaster fears that he may try to use this to his advantage, to manipulate you
            through false visions.
Wand out, Potter. Harry draws his wand. 
You may use any spell you can think of to try and repel me. 
What are you going to do? 
I am going to break into your mind. 
 Legimens! The
            spell hits Harry, who staggers backward, grimacing. 
NO!
Well, you stopped me eventually. Ideally, you should repel me with your
            mind. Harry climbs to his feet. 
Clear your mind, Potter. Abandon your emotions. Legilimens! Harry staggers
            again. 
Come on, Harry! 
I've been there before...
Now, Harry, I find that highly unlikely... 
What was that? Harry looks stunned. 
I've just realized... Snape is staring at him, agitated. 
Realized what, Potter? Harry looks at Snape suddenly. 
What's in the Department of Mysteries, sir?
What did you say? 
That corridor, I've been dreaming about it for months...it leads to the
            Department of Mysteries, I'm sure of it.
There are many things in the Department of Mysteries, Potter, none of
            which concern you. There is a horrifying SCREAM that ECHOS through the castle.
 You cannot sack me! 
I can do whatever I wish! 
This is my home! Umbridge is grinning evilly. 
Not anymore. She points at the door with a stubby finger. 
Now remove yourself from this castle! 
She will not be leaving.
I have the authority, Headmaster! 
Oh, I agree with you, Professor Umbridge. You do have the power to
            dismiss my teachers. However...
...You cannot send them from this castle. That is still my decision.
            Professor Trelawney will remain here. Umbridge turns to him, furious. 
And what of her quarters when I appoint a new teacher. 
Happily, that will not be necessary. I have found a successor for
            good Professor Trelawney already. As you know... Umbridge is looking mutinous. 
...the Ministry can only appoint new teachers if I cannot find one. I
            think you will find him suitable enough.
This is Firenze.
So you're saying this weapon You- Know-Who's after is in the Department of
            Mysteries? 
It's got to be. 
That's got to be what Surgis Podmore was doing in the Ministry when he
            was arrested. 
Probably. Mr. Weasley was probably there when he was attacked, too. That
            must be what the Order's guarding! 
But why the Department of Mysteries? 
It makes perfect sense, Ron. It's got to be something the Ministry's
            been developing. Something top secret. Harry nods in agreement. Hermione picks up a copy
            of the Daily Prophet grimly. 
Look at this. There's been a mass escape from Azkaban. 
Bloody hell!
They're all Death Eaters!
Yes. Harry grits his teeth. 
Voldemort. 
Hi, Harry! Harry grins sheepishly at her, avoiding looking at Ron. 
Have fun, Harry. Meet me in The Three Broomsticks after. There's
            something you need to do. 
Ok. He goes to Cho, and they leave together. 
You know, Cedric and I came here last year. Before...
I--I've been meaning to ask you for ages...but...I mean... Harry looks at
            her. She is beginning to tear up. 
What? 
Did--did Cedric say anything about me before he...he--died? 
Oh. Uh, no, there wasn't really much time... Cho bursts into tears. Harry
            tries to console her. 
Look, maybe we should talk about something else... 
I thought you'd want to talk about it! I thought you'd understand!
See you around, Harry. She walks out. Harry stands and runs after her. 
What's this all about? 
That's what Little Miss Perfect was about to tell us. Harry glances at
            Hermione. 
Right, well, I figured that with all of the negative press out about
            Harry, he should have a chance to defend himself. 
 All of the
            details. What happened last summer. The truth about Sirius Black and Voldemort, not to
            mention the names of all the Death Eaters still on the loose. Rita leans across the
            table. 
The Prophet will never publish that. Goes against the public mood. 
Well, it doesn't matter. We've found a publisher for the article. 
Who? Luna looks away from the window. 
My father. He's the editor of The Quibbler. Rita laughs out loud. 
The Quibbler? 
 You think people will take Harry
            Potter seriously if he's published in the Quibbler? It's nothing but a conspiracy
            theory, cock-and-bull story tabloid! 
Some won't believe Harry, that's true. But every person we do convince
            is one more ally. Rita shrugs, and pulls her quill from her bag. 
So, Harry. Ready to tell the public the truth? 
Yeah, I guess so. Hermione sits back and sips her drink. 
Fire away, Rita. 
Look, Harry! It's your article!
What on earth? Hermione beams at him. 
Fan mail, Harry! Responses to the article. 
Which article is that, dear?
I have just published an article telling the real story about what
            happened last June. Umbridge instantly turns an ugly shade of purple in her rage. 
Where is this article? Hermione hands her the Quibbler. 
Right, I will confiscate this. Anyone found in possession of this
            magazine will be expelled. She stalks off. Hermione giggles in triumph. 
What? 
She's done it to herself. Banning the article will only make people
            want to read it more! 
We've been doing so well, I thought we'd work on some defensive blocking
            spells tonight. 
That was really good. With a CRACK, Dobby appears. 
Mr. Harry Potter! He looks absolutely frantic. Harry turns to him. 
What is it, Dobby?
She--
Who, Dobby? Dobby shakes his head. 
Is it Umbridge? Dobby nods. Harry looks up, horrified. Dobby forces his
            arms down and takes a breath. 
She knows, Harry Potter. She's coming! Harry opens the door with a wave of
            his wand. 
Get out of here! Now!
Got you, Potter. 
 Over here, Professor! I've got
               one!
It's him. Well done, Draco! 
 On your feet,
            Potter. We're going to see the Headmaster! She turns to Draco. 
Search everywhere for the others, Draco. Round them all up. Check
            everywhere, bathrooms, the library, empty classrooms. We must find them! Draco nods and
            hurries off. 
You may be High Inquisitor of this school, Professor Umbridge, but
            kindly do not manhandle my students.
Well, well, well, Mr. Potter! I expect you know why you're here?
Not really, no. 
You don't? You haven't broken any school rules? 
School rules? No. 
Or Ministerial Decrees? 
Not that I know of.
I'm afraid the poor girl is unable to speak. But I shall tell you what
            has transpired. 
 Shortly after dinner she came to me and said that
            if I went to the Room of Requirement I would find an illegally-formed student group.
               
 It was at that time that this hex took affect. She gestures to
            Marietta's face. 
Since I had received information some time ago that Potter and a number
            of other students had met in the Hog's Head to start an illegal group-- 
I'm not sure that's true, Professor.
 
 In point of fact, when young Potter met those students it was not
            illegal. 
But two days later, Educational Decree Twenty-Four was introduced. 
Again, quite correct. However, I wonder if you have any evidence that
            proves this group has been meeting since then? 
I have a witness right here! 
Correct again. I must confess that I was, however, under the
            impression that this young girl only told you a meeting was going on tonight. 
Let's ask her, shall we? She turns to Marietta, who is staring at the
            wall. 
You can shake your head for an answer, dear. Now, have there been more
            meetings? Slowly, still staring at the wall, Marietta shakes her head. 
What do you mean by shaking your head, girl? 
I would think that she was saying there have been no other meetings.
            Would that be correct?
But what about Potter? He was the leader, and has been--
Why are you shaking your head, girl? 
It usually means 'no,' Dolores. Umbridge grabs Marietta by the cloak
            and shakes her roughly.
Again, I cannot have you manhandling my students, Professor Umbridge.
            She laughs, softly, and lets Marietta go. 
My apologies, Headmaster. I forgot myself. 
Well, what about the meeting tonight? 
Right. Of course. Well, we proceeded down to the Room and entered.
               
 We caught Potter just outside. But it doesn't matter. We've
            found all of their names.
So, Dumbledore, you've been behind this whole thing.

            
 Dumbledore's Army. Dumbledore smiles pleasantly and spreads
            his hands widely. 
Well, Minister. You've caught me. 
This has all been your doing! You've been recruiting students for your
            army! 
Quite correct, Cornelius. 
I knew it! I KNEW it! You've been plotting against me all this time! 

            
 That's right. 
This is too good to be true! Harry turns to Dumbledore in horror. 
Professor, no! 
Quiet, Harry! 
Yes, shut up, Potter. So, you'll be coming with us to the Ministry-- 
Ah, yes. I was wondering when we'd hit that little snag. 
I see no snag, Dumbledore. 
But I do. You seem to be laboring under the delusion that I would
            'come quietly.' 
Resisting arrest, now are you, Dumbledore? 
Precisely. You see, I have absolutely no intention of going to
               Azkaban.
Don't be silly, Hawkes. Leave the wand there.
You would really take on two Aurors, Dolores, and myself, Dumbledore? 
Naturally. All of you did rather well on your spellwork at this
            school, but if you attempt to take me in by force, I'm afraid I shall have to hurt
               you.
Are you all right? McGonagall is standing, dusting herself off. 
Yes, we're fine. 
 Oh, where will you go, Albus? 
I'm not going into hiding. Fudge will soon regret removing me from
            Hogwarts. Harry moves to Dumbledore's side. 
I'm so sorry, Professor!
It's fine. Now listen to me, Harry. Keep studying Occlumency! Do
            everything Professor Snape tells you. He grips Harry's shoulder. 
Close your mind! You will understand, in time. Fudge is stirring. 
Lay back down. They must not think we have had time to talk. They do
            so. He moves to Fawkes.
Find him!
"By Order of the Ministry of Magic: Dolores Jane Umbridge will replace
            Albus Dumbledore as Head of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry." She looks over
            them all smugly. 
My first act as your new Headmistress is to form an Inquisitional
            Squad, lead by Draco Malfoy. They will report directly to me about the goings on in the
            halls of this school. Harry glares at her. 
Furthermore, our good caretaker, Mr. Filch has requested we reinstate
            the 'old punishments.' I have decided that there is no reason we shouldn't.
Are you sure you can't? Hagrid said it was important. 
No way. Quidditch practice. If I don't show up, Angelina'll go mad. They
            part ways. 
Hagrid...we've been walking for a good hour. 
Its jus' up ahead, here. 
Could you tell us what it is, Hagrid, please? 
All righ'. Well, I'm showin' yeh this, because tha' Umbridge woman put me
            on probation. I can' last much longer afore I get sacked like Trelawney. 
We won't let her! 
Bah. S'not the end o' the world. If I do, I'll go help Dumbledore. Grea'
            man... 
 Anyway, I woudn' tell yeh 'cept for tha'. I can' leave
            withou' makin' arraingmen's, see? 
 I'll need all o' yer help. 
Of course we'll help.
Knew yeh'd say yes! He pauses and glances at them. 
Okay, real quiet like from here on. They creep down the path until Hagrid
            straightens and smiles. 
There we are!
Hagrid, I thought none of them wanted to come! Hagrid looks
            uncomfortable. 
None o' them did, Hermione! I didn' have much ruddy choice inna matter! I
            couldn' leave 'im! 
Oh, why, Hagrid? Why? 
He's me brother! There is a silence in the forest. 
Well, half-brother anyway. Me mum had 'im afore she died.
               
 I though' I could bring 'im back here an' train 'im up a bit.
            Teach 'im a bit o' manners.
Here. I'll introduce yeh to Grawp!
Yeh all righ', Grawp? Grawp gives a low roar. 
Look wha' I brough' yeh, Grawpy! Two new friends an' all. We 'ave Harry
            Potter here, see? An' over here is Hermy.
Hermy!
Bad Grawpy! Bad boy! Grawp roars in pain. 
We don' attack our friends, Grawpy!
See, he don' know any better. Harry glares at him. 
Anyway, all yeh need teh do is go an' talk to 'im. Give 'im a bit o'
               company.
Oh blimey... 
I thought we told you that you were no longer welcome in this place,
            Hagrid. You or that beast you brought from afar. 
S'not up to you who comes and goes in this forest. 
You stopped us from invoking our punishments on Firenze for becoming the
            servant of the humans at Hogwarts. 
Stopped yeh from committin' murder, yeh mean! 
Our ways are not yours, Hagrid. And now you bring that monster here...our
            patience with it wanes swiftly. 
Well, you'll tolerate 'im as long as he's here! The Centaurs paw the
            ground in agitation. 
We allow you to pass this time, Hagrid, because you have young with you.
            But the next time you enter this forest, your life is forfeit. The centaurs vanish into
            the undergrowth again. 
Please sit, Potter.
You're here to have a talk with me about your career thoughts,
            Potter. We do this so we can begin to aim your courses over the next two years to
            prepare you for that career. 
Oh, yeah. Well, I did think about being an Auror. 
Auror. Interesting, Potter. You'll need top grades for that.
            Challenging career path, but not unrewarding. 
Hem hem. 
Now then, Potter, you'll need to concentrate on Defense Against the
            Dark Arts, Potions, Transfiguration, and Charms to adequately prepare yourself for the
            general Auror requirements. 
Hem hem. 
May I offer you a cough drop, Professor Umbridge? 
Oh, no thank you, Minerva. Actually, I was just wondering if Potter has
            the proper temperament to be an Auror. 
Were you indeed. She turns back to Harry. 
If you're serious in this ambition, Potter, I would recommend
            concentrating on bringing your Potions and Charms grades up before your O.W.L.s. I
            daresay you've got enough time if you apply yourself. Lord knows you've consistently
            done well in Defense Against the Dark Arts. Professor Lupin-- 
Excuse me, Minerva, but have you seen my note on Potter's current
            grades in my class? 
Yes, indeed I have. 
Then I think you will find that Potter's grades have been consistently
            poor this year. 
You apparently misunderstand me. I meant that Potter has done well in
            every Defense Against the Dark Arts class taught by a competent teacher.
Now, assuming you've passed all of your necessary classes, the
            Ministry will put you through a number of character and aptitude tests. 
What's involved in them? 
How you stand up under pressure, your perseverance, and dedication,
            things of this nature. Umbridge stands abruptly. 
Harry Potter has no chance of ever becoming an Auror! McGonagall stands
            as well, her eyes locked with Harry's. 
I will assist you in becoming an Auror if it the very last thing I
            do, Potter! I will coach you nightly in order to get the necessary grades! Umbridege
            storms from the room. 
This concludes our meeting, Potter. She smiles at him. He smiles
            back. 
Thanks, Professor. 
You're welcome, Potter. Now hurry or you'll be late for Occlumency.
         
Have you been practicing, Potter?
 
 Well, we shall see, won't we?
Excuse me, Professor. Professor Umbridge says she needs you right away. 
What on earth for? 
Well, sir, remember when Montegue vanished over Christmas? She says he's
            turned up in a toilet on the fourth floor. 
Any idea how he got there? 
He's pretty confused, but I think he said something about the Vanishing
            Closet. Snape stands irritably. 
We will pick your remedial potions lesson up tomorrow, Potter. Draco
            sniggers. They depart.
Put that away, James. James shrugs and does so. 
I'm bored. Wish it was full moon. Lupin snorts. 
Easy for you to say. James nudges Sirius. 
This should cheer you up, Sirius. Look. Sirius grins. 
Excellent! Snivellus! Snape is walking by. The four of them stand and
            follow him. 
All right, there, Snivellus? Snape turns in a flash, wand out. Sirius is
            faster, however. 
Expelliarmus! Snape's wand flies from his hand. He dives for it. 
Impedimenta! Snape stops moving, struggling against INVISIBLE ROPES. 
You just wait... Sirius laughs. 
Wait for what, Snivellus? You to wipe that great greasy nose on
               us?
And now, the moment you've all been waiting for-- 
Leave him alone, James Potter!
Another charity case, Lily? 
What has he done to you? 
Nothing. It's more the fact that he exists, you see...
 
 Levicorpus!
Leave him alone, Potter! James turns and smiles at her. 
I will if you go out with me. 
I wouldn't go out with you if it were a choice between you and the
            giant squid! Now let him down.
Locomotor mortis! Lily draws her wand. 
I said, leave him alone!
Don't make me hex you, Lily. 
Then let him go! 
Fine!
You're lucky Lily was here, Snivellus! 
I don't need help from a mud-blood like her!
Apologize to her! Now! 
Don't make him apologize. Honestly, you're as bad as he is! James
            whirls on her. 
I would never call you that. She shakes her head. 
You make me sick, Potter. She turns and walks away. 
Lily! Hey Lily!
Having fun, Potter?
Been enjoying yourself? 
No! 
Amusing man, your father...
I--sorry!
You will repeat what you saw to no one! Harry is already shaking his head. 
No, of course not!
You had better not, Potter, or you will experience a pain so horrible you
            will wish you had never been born! He pushes Harry away from him. 
Now get out of my sight! Do not set foot in this office ever again! Harry
            turns and runs. 
Today begins your O.W.L exams. A number of Ministry instructors are
            here to give them. Exams will take place for the next two weeks. Exams will be split in
            two parts, theory and practical application. 
 I must warn you that
            the most stringent anti-cheating spells have been added to your exam papers. No student
            has successfully cheated on an O.W.L. in a century, though every year someone tries it.
               
 Naturally, cheating will not be suffered and anyone caught will
            be expelled from Hogwarts. 
Oy! That's Umbridge down there!
They're heading for Hagrid's! Ron and Harry exchange nervous glances. 
Eyes back on the sky, please. The students ignore the
               Professor.
Twenty minutes left on your exam, students.
No! 
Be reasonable, Hagrid! Hagrid yells uncomprehensibly. 
Look! Harry smiles. 
McGonagall'll sort this out! 
 How dare you! How DARE you! She
            breaks into a run. 
Stop this immediately!
Enough!
Not even a warning!
COWARDS!
Get him, get him!
Get her to the hospital wing right away.
Before we begin, I have an update on Professor McGonagall.
            She will be all right, and is resting in the hospital wing. Harry and Ron look
            encouraged. 
You may now turn your papers over and begin.
Can you reach it? Can you take it for me, Black?
I would rather die!
Oh, you will die. Eventually. But there are hours, even days of pain
            awaiting you before then. He releases Sirius, who slumps to the floor, panting for air. 
I'm going to enjoy this, Black. I have you, and soon I shall have the
            weapon. And then not even your pathetic Order can stand in my way! Voldemort laughs, a
            horrible spine-chilling laugh. The room dissolves around Harry. 
Are you all right, Potter? Harry shakes his head. 
Pressure of exams. It happens. Take a breath, and maybe
            you'll be ready to go back in. Time is nearly up, but-- Harry is shaking his head. 
No--no, I've done all I can.
You all right? 
Voldemort! He's got Sirius! In the Department of Mysteries! Ron looks
            pale. 
How do you know? 
I just saw it.
How're we going to get there? 
To the Department of Mysteries? 
We've got to do something! Ron and Hermione exchange looks. 
How'd Voldemort get into the Ministry of Magic without being seen? I
            mean, he and Sirius are the two most wanted wizards in the world... 
Yeah. They can't just waltz into the Ministry of Magic! 
It just seems so unlikely, Harry! Harry grabs her robes and glares at
            her. 
I won't let Sirius die! Just then Ginny, Luna, Fred, and George round the
            corner. 
We heard Harry yelling. What's up? 
Voldemort's broken into the Department of Mysteries. He's got Sirius
            there! 
 He could already have the weapon! 
Think, Harry! Voldemort knows you! He knows you'd rush off to save
            Sirius. 
There isn't anyone else, Hermione! Everyone from the Order is gone! 
Anything we can do to help? 
No, there isn't!
Yes, they can, Harry. 
How? 
Before we do anything, we need to establish that Sirius really isn't at
            Headquarters. Which means we'll need to break into Umbridge's office. She smiles, and
            glances at Fred and George. 
For that, we'll need a really good distraction. Fred and George grin. 
Right you are, Hermione. Think we can whip something up, George? 
Might be able to. 
Just give us a few seconds. 
Mind you, it's got to be really good! 
Not to worry, Hermione. We've got something that will outdue everything
            else we've done here combined. 
It's been too quiet around here anyway. 
Time we did some real damage to this place.
We'll also need to keep everyone away from her office. Ginny brightens. 
We can do that! Me and Luna'll guard the hallway. Harry smiles at them. 
We'll probably only manage five minutes or so. 
That's all we'll need. Fred and George straighten. 
Right. You've got ten minutes to get to Umbridge's office. And whatever you
            do, stay away from the Astronomy Tower for the next couple of hours. 
Unless they spread, in which case, I'd get out of the castle for a while.
            They leave. Hermione turns to Harry. 
Break out your Invisibility Cloak, Harry. 
Professor! It's those Weasley twins! They've set something off in the
            Astronomy Tower! Umbridge smiles twistedly. 
Ready to try out the old punishments again? 
 They've had this coming for a long time!
Grimmauld Place!
Sirius! Are you here! 
That was worth it! Filch steps back around the corner, grinning evilly. 
I've got you now!
Thank you for playing, one and all. 
And now, we've got to go! They turn and vanish down another hallway.
         
Sirius! Lupin? Hello? 
What's this? The Potter boy in the fire... Kreacher comes into view of
            the fireplace. 
Kreacher, where's Sirius? 
Master went out. 
So, turning a hallway into a swamp is funny, is it? 
Fairly amusing, yeah. 
Well, now you're going to learn what happens to wrongdoers in my
            school. Filch pulls out a long evil-looking BLACK WHIP, smiling. 
This was never your school! Hogwarts is Dumbledore's school! There is a
            loud cheer from the students filling the hall. Umbridge looks around, livid with rage. 
Well, now you're going to get your punishments right here, in front of
            the whole school! Fred snorts. 
You know, I don't think we are. 
George, I think we've outgrown full- time education. Wouldn't you agree? 
Completely, Fred. 
Time to enter the real world? 
Definitely. Together they raise their wands. 
Accio brooms! 
We won't be seeing you. 
Yeah, don't bother writing.
Be sure to visit us at our new premises on Diagon Alley!
You know where he is, don't you? 
Master does not tell Kreacher where he goes. 
But you know. Kreacher grins horribly. 
Master will never return from the Department of Mysteries!

            
 Harry!
You think you could simply walk into my office without me knowing about
            it? Foolish boy!
Accio wand! Harry's wand flips from his pocket to Umbridge's hand. 
Who were you trying to contact? 
It's none of your business. 
Draco, would you fetch Professor Snape, please? Draco leaves. Umbridge
            smiles sickeningly at Harry. 
Very well, Potter. I have been patient enough with you. Draco returns
            with Snape. 
You wished to see me? 
I have just caught Potter trying to communicate with someone in my
            fire. I need some Veritaserum. Truth syrum. 
Well, it appears that I cannot help you. I have none. He turns to leave.
            Harry looks at him desperately. 
He's got Padfoot at the place it's hidden! 
What? What does that mean? 
Potter, if I want nonsense shouted at me, I shall inform you. He sweeps
            from the office. Umbridge is enraged. 
We've played nicely, Potter. You leave me no choice! She draws her
            wand, moving menacingly at Harry. 
You could have saved me a lot of trouble if those Dementors I sent to
            your house had finished you off! 
You sent the Dementors? 
Of course I did! Someone had to act! She points her wand at Harry's
            chest. 
CRUCIO!
No! Please, stop! Umbridge looks pleased and turns to Hermione. 
Well, well. 
Hermione, no! 
We have to tell her, Harry... 
I would rather die! 
Shut up, Potter! Now talk, you silly girl! Who were you talking to? 
We were trying to find Professor Dumbledore. We had to tell him... 
Tell him? 
That it's ready. The weapon.
You and Mr. Potter will take me to it. 
Much further, is it? 
Oh, yes. It's very well hidden.
What are you doing in our forest? 
Your forest? This forest belongs to the Ministry of Magic! The centaurs
            move closer. 
Stay back, you beasts!
You cannot attack me! Any attack on a wizard by a half-breed-- 
Don't call them that! Magorian ROARS in anger. 
You dare to insult us?
Come no closer! Magorian rears up on his hind-legs and beats his chest. 
Incarcerus!
Ingrates! Animals! Filthy half- bloods! There is BLAST like a GUNSHOT
            and Umbridge screams again. Harry and Hermione are grabbed by two Centaurs. 
What of these two? 
God, I can't wait until all you Weasleys have been expelled. Your stench
            has been fouling this castle for too long. Ron glares at him. 
Shut up, Malfoy!
That's for speaking to me. You know, you Weasleys are just as bad as
               Mudbloods!
You know, Weasley, it's really too bad Potter saved you from the Chamber
            of Secrets. Ginny struggles against Crabbe, who is restraining her. Ron snatches up his
            wand. 
Stupify!
Expelliarmus! 
Haggar! There is another silence. Grawp sees Harry and Hermione. 
Hermy! Where Haggar? The centaurs raise their bows to point at the giant. 
Grawp, help us! Grawp ROARS again and BEATS his CHEST. 
Grawp save Hermy!

            

         
Great plan, Hermione. 
I thought it worked out rather nicely. 
What are we supposed to do now? 
That's just what we were wondering.
So, how do we get to the Ministry?
I'd imagine we should fly. 
We've got no brooms. 
There are other ways to fly. She nods in the direction of the forest. 
I mean, they can fly, and they're very good at finding places you need to
            go. Harry turns around and sees three THESTRALS watching them. 
What are those? 
What are what? He looks right at them and doesn't see them. 
There's nothing there, Harry. 
Yes, there is. They're Thestrals. You can't see them unless you've seen
            someone die. Neville is quiet. Finally, he looks up. 
I can see them too. Harry claps his hands. 
All right, then. Get on one, and we'll be off. 
And what about those of us who can't see them? Luna comes over to them. 
I'll show you. 
Never again... 
What now, Harry?
All right, come on.
Department of Mysteries.
Where is everyone? 
The Ministry closed a half-hour ago. I expect they all went home. Harry
            nods grimly. 
That's how Voldemort got in unnoticed. They walk until they reach the
            hallway from Harry's dreams. 
This is it. Come on.
Stay close. He steps into the next room. 
Now where?
I don't understand. In my dream, the doors weren't identical. 
Well, let's try a few. Harry nods. 
Yeah. I'll know the way when I see it. He goes to the first door he sees
            and opens the door. He steps inside. The others follow. 
Who's there?
Sirius? 
There's no one here, Harry. This isn't the right room. 
Does anyone else hear that? 
I do. It's coming from the Veil.

            
 Harry... His eyes are locked on the veil. He walks closer. 
There are people in there! 
What do you mean, people? 
Harry, I think we should leave. Harry reaches out his hand towards the
               veil.
Harry, we're here for Sirius, remember? Harry stops. He blinks and
            drops his hand. 
Sirius...yeah...
 
 Whatever's in there, the Ministry sure doesn't want anyone getting to it.
            He moves to the next door and opens it, stepping inside. 
This is it! Come on! They move through the clocks.
This is it. This is where Sirius is! He opens the door and charges
            through. 
He's in here somewhere.
I don't think Sirius is here. Ron stares at one of the orbs. 
Harry, have you seen this? Harry looks over his shoulder. 
Er...it's got your name on it. Sure enough, there was a golden orb resting
            on the shelf with the label "S.P.T. to A.P.W.B.D.: The Dark Lord and 

            Harry Potter."
What's my name doing here? 
Don't touch it, Harry! Harry glares at her.
 
 Yeah, Harry, don't. He looks at Neville, who is very pale. 
It's got my name on it! He takes it off the shelf and looks at it. 
I warned you before that one day you would come to a sticky end, Potter. 
Where's Sirius? Lucius, and several other death eaters laugh. 
We don't have him, if that's what you mean. Harry is stunned. 
You never did, did you? It was all just a trick. 
The Dark Lord knows your weakness for heroics, Potter. All it took was a
            little nudge to get you here.
Now give me that prophesy. 
What prophesy? Lucius points at the Golden orb. 
That prophesy. Now hand it over or we'll have to use wands on you.
Go ahead. Lucius regards him coldly. 
Very brave of you, Potter. Or are you foolish? 
Come and find out! Lucius doesn't move. 
Really, Potter. You expect to defeat all of us with your little school
            friends? Now hand it over, and they won't have to die here.
I haven't escaped from Azkaban for this! She raises her wand. Lucius
            forces her arm down. 
No! If the prophesy is smashed--
Take the youngest girl. We'll see how committed Potter is as we
            torture her.
You even try to take her and I'll smash this thing.
So, what kind of prophesy are we talking about here? 
Surely you jest, Potter? 
Not really. How come Voldemort wants it? 
You dare to speak the Dark Lord's name? 
Who, Voldemort? Oh, yeah, I dare. Voldemort, voldemort, Voldemort-- 
Silence! How dare you utter that name from your half-blood mouth! 
Hey, did you know Voldemort's a half-blood too? Bella raises her wand to
            strike, but Malfoy stops her again. 
Control yourself, Bellatrix! 
What's so special about this prophesy anyway? Bella shrieks with laughter. 
You mean Dumbledore never told you the reason you bear that scar was
            hidden here? Harry looks as if slapped, he is so surprised. 
What? Lucius and the Death Eaters laugh. 
 When I give the signal, blast the shelves...
            Hermione and Ron nod grimly. 
So that's what took you so long. We wondered. 
But why did he need me to take it? 
Only a person for whom the prophesy was made can remove it from its self,
            Potter, and the Dark Lord certainly couldn't get it himself. Harry is angry. 
So he used me to do his dirty work, did he? 
Precisely, Potter. 
NOW!
RUN!
Stupify!
Stop them! Harry is the last through the door. 
Colloportus! The door seals itself.
Where'd the rest go? Hermione looks around. 
Harry, they went the wrong way!
They might have gone on to the hall. 
Check under the desks. Harry leaps out from under his desk. 
Stupify!
Avada-- Neville emerges from beneath his desk. 
Expelliarmus! Bella's wand flies from her fingers. Harry finishes her
            off. 
Stupify!
Ron! Two Death Eaters enter the room. 
Impedimenta!
We've got him! 
Silenco! Stupify! The death eater falls silent, and then to the ground.
            Harry staggers to his feet, dazed. 
Pretificus Totalus!
Stupify! The death eater falls over. 
Hermione! He runs to her. She appears to be sleeping. 
Please don't be dead, please don't be dead... He shakes her. 
Hermione, wake up... Neville runs over. 
What's they do to her? Harry shakes his head. Neville feels her wrist. 
She's alive, Harry. There's a pulse. Harry sighs in relief. 
Can we carry her? 
I'll do it. You're better at fighting.
Where do we go? 
I don't know...
What happened. 
I think my ankle's broken. And somebody hit Ron with a weird spell... Ron
            laughs strangely. 
Hiyya, Harry. 
 You look funny.... He laughs
               again.
They hit her with something too. Harry straightens. 
We need to get out of here. Luna, can you help Ginny? Luna moves to her
            side. Another door opens, and five death eaters emerge. 
There they are!
Your race is run, Potter. Hand it over. Harry glances around frantically. 
Let my friends go and I will.
You are not in a position to negotiate. Neville struggles against the
            Death Eater holding him. 
Don't do it, Harry! Don't! 
Stop, Neville!
Neville? Neville Longbottom? She laughs in glee. 
My dear boy, I paid your parents a visit a long time ago. We had such
            a time! 
You put them in St. Mungos! Bellatrix beams at him. 
So, Potter. Give us the Prophesy or I'll see how long it takes to
            crack Longbottom like his parents. Harry is desperate. 
Don't give it to them! Bellatrix points her wand at him. 
Crucio!
Are you all right? 
Yeah...
Give me the prophesy!
Get out of here, you two! He points at one of the doors. 
That will take you back out of the Department of Mysteries. Sirius makes
            to go back to the fight. Harry grabs his hand. 
You come with us! Sirius shakes his head. 
You're the important one, now, Harry. I have to help the Order.
I'll always be here for you, Harry. Now go!
Hello, cousin!
Potter!
We may have lost the prophesy, but I can still deliver you to the Dark
            Lord! He waves his wand. 
Stupify!
Protego! Malfoy's spell bounces away from Harry.
It's Dumbledore!
Is that the best you've got, cousin?

            
 Sirius!

            
 Let me go! He hits at Lupin, trying to break away from him. 
Harry! HARRY!...he's gone...there's nothing you can do... Harry hits him
            across the face, still struggling wildly. 
LIAR!
No...no...no....
Harry, no!
You can't stop me, Potter!
Stupify!
Come out, come out, Potter... Harry grows more angry by the second. 
Well, well, have you come to avenge your dear Godfather? Harry leaps
            out from behind the fountain. 
Crucio!
Crucio!
Never used an Unforgivable Curse before, have you, Potter? You have to
            mean it, you have to want to cause the pain in your very soul...
Give me the prophesy! 
Can't. It got smashed by accident! 
You lie! Harry laughs. 
How's Voldemort going to like that? You've failed him, and he's not very
            forgiving, is he? Bellatrix lets out a shriek of horror. 
Forgive me, Master! I tried, I-- Harry laughs again. 
He can't hear you from here, you know! 
Can't I, Potter?
So, you smashed my prophesy...
I grow tired of you continually thwarting my plans, Harry Potter! He
            snaps his wand down. 
Avada Kadavra!
You should not have come here tonight, Tom. 
It is you who made that mistake, Dumbledore!
Avada Kedavra!
You do not seek to kill me, Dumbledore? 
There are other ways to destroy a man, Tom. 
There is nothing worse than death! 
You are quite wrong, Tom, as you have always been.
Look out!
Professor! He stands up. 
Stay where you are, Harry! Dumbledore sounds frightened.
 Kill me now, Dumbledore...do it, if death means
               nothing...
Harry!
Are you all right, Harry? Harry nods, dazed. 
Minister, I saw him! You-Know-Who! He was right there!
I know...I saw him too...
If you and your men will proceed to the Death Room, you will find
            several Death Eaters which I and some others have apprehended. Fudge points at
            Dumbledore. 
Seize him!
Minister, you have just seen You- Know-Who in the flesh only seconds
            ago! It is time to come to your senses! Fudge looks cowed. 
If you insist on trying to arrest me, I am perfectly willing
            demonstrate how useless such an attempt will be.
Dumbledore, what the blazes happened here?
I will explain everything, Minister. Just as soon as I return Harry
            to school. Fudge 
 turns to see Harry for the first
            time. 
What's he doing here? And what's happened to him?
Minister, you will order the removal of Dolores Umbridge from my
            school. 
 Also, she will probably need medical attention, having had
            a violent encounter with some Centaurs earlier this evening. 

            

         
 All Educational Decrees will be nullified and
            you will call off the search on Hagrid so he can return to work. Fudge is sputtering
            incomprehensibly. 
I will return here later tonight, after I have seen to Harry. It
            should not take long. He taps the Golden centaur head. 
Portus. He motions Harry over. 
Dumbledore, I want some answers! 
The Second War has begun, Minister.
Thank you...
Please sit, Harry.
I understand how you feel, Harry-- 
No you don't!
You forget that Sirius was my friend too. You are not the only person
            on this earth capable of feelings, Harry. Harry nearly snarls at him. 
There is no shame in feeling pain, Harry. It is your greatest
            strength... 
You don't have a clue! You can't possibly know! 
What can't I know?
This pain is part of being human, Harry... 
 Then I don't want to be human!
I don't care! I don't care!
You do care. You care so much you feel like you will bleed to death
            because of it. Harry gets to his feet.
Let me out. 
No. Harry draws his wand, looking furious. 
You can't keep me in here! 
I daresay I can. And if you actually do attack me with that wand,
            Harry, I'm afraid to say you will regret it.
It is my fault Sirius died tonight. 
 I have kept
            things from you, Harry. Things that I should not have concealed. You had a right to
            know, but I put off telling you. Dumbledore sighs, sadly, and suddenly he seems very
            old. 
Had I told you that Voldemort might try to lure you down to the
            Department of Mysteries you would never have gone there tonight. Sirius would never have
            gone after you. 
 That fault lies with me. I hope that you can find
            it in your heart to forgive me one day. Harry stares angrily out the window. 
Harry, I owe you this explanation, to show you the failings of an old
            man. Harry continues staring out the window. 
Our explanation begins with your scar. You already know that it is a
            connection between you and Voldemort, and that this connection goes both ways.
               
 I grew worried that Voldemort would at some point discover this
            connection, which he did the night Mr. Weasely was attacked. 
I already know all this. 
Haven't you wondered why I haven't spoken to you, even looked at you,
            for months? 
Well, yeah, I did... 
I was worried that if Voldemort discovered there was a closer
            relationship between us than simply between teacher and student he would use you to spy
            on the Order. Another mistake. 
 Voldemort showed us both tonight
            that his aim in possessing you would not be to destroy me, but to destroy you. Harry
            looks at his shoes. 
Sirius told me you believed there was a snake inside of you. This was
            Voldemort attempting to manipulate you. To protect you from this, I had you study
            Occlumency. 
But Snape stopped giving me lessons. 
Yes. I thought he could overcome his feelings towards your father,
            but I was wrong. Some wounds cut too deep to be healed. 
He barely taught me, though. I always felt more open to it after the
            lessons. Like he was trying to open me to Voldemort-- 
I would trust Severus Snape with my life, Harry. You have never
            recovered from your mistrust of him in your first year. 
Sirius didn't trust him. Didn't believe he'd really turned to our side... 
Again, some wounds run too deep to be healed, Harry. Severus and
            Sirius never liked each other at school. This has never changed. Harry glares at the
            carpet. 
During your Occulumency lessons, Professor Snape discovered that you
            were dreaming about the door in the Department of Mysteries. 
I've been dreaming about that all year, before Voldemort discovered the
            connection. 
Yes. Voldemort has been obsessed with hearing that prophesy since he
            returned. Because of your scar, what he was obsessed with, you were obsessed with, in
            the form of dreams. 

            

         
 Once he discovered the connection, Voldemort had
            little difficulty in manipulating you into thinking he had captured Sirius. 
But I checked Grimmauld Place! Kreacher said-- 
Kreacher lied. He wanted you to go to the Department of Mysteries. 
Why? 
Kreacher has been serving two masters for some months now. 
What? 
It appears that when Sirius told him to get out, Kreacher thought he
            meant out of the house. So he went to the Black's closest relatives, the Malfoys.
               
 Obviously, they questioned him. Sirius had forbidden him from
            giving up important secrets. But Sirius had neglected to mention his relationship with
            you. 
 He told them how you saw him as a mixture of father and
            brother, and that you would move heaven and earth to save Sirius. 

            Voldemort knew that making you believe he had Sirius in the Department of Mysteries
            would force you there. 
Wait, where was Sirius when I tried to contact him? 
Ah. Apparently Kreacher had injured Buckbeak to distract him in case
            you tried to contact Headquarters. 

         
 Sirius was tending to the wounds when you
            called. 
And Hermione said we should be nice to Kreacher! 
She was quite right, Harry. Kreacher is what wizards have made him.
            He is to be pitied, not hated. 
Sirius hated him. 
He didn't hate Kreacher himself. Kreacher was a reminder to Sirius of
            the home he had always hated. 
Yeah, he really hated that place. And you kept him locked up in there! 
I was trying to save his life!
It is time to tell you what I should have five years ago. No doubt
            you have wondered why it was that I sent you there and not to a wizarding family?
               
 I did it for your protection. You were in more danger than
            anyone realized. Voldemort was defeated, but his servants were everywhere. Harry is
            silent. 
I also knew that Voldemort would return one day. I played to his
            weakness. There is an ancient magic which Voldemort has always underestimated.
               

            

         
 This magic is what your mother gave you when she
            died. That protection would only work, however, if you were cared for by a blood
            relative. Your Aunt, Petunia. 
She never loved me. 
Perhaps not. But she took you in, however grudgingly. As long as you
            can call your Aunt's house your home, you are protected. Harry looks away. 
And now we come to the moment of terrible truth, the moment I have
            dreaded for fifteen years. The moment when I must lay another burden atop your already
            straining shoulders. Harry stares into his blue eyes. 
Do you remember your first year here? When you lay in the hospital
            wing fresh from your confrontation with Voldemort? Harry nods. 
Do you remember what you asked me that night? 
I asked you why Voldemort tried to kill me. 
Yes. I decided not to tell you then. After all, eleven was too young
            for such burdens. The same went for twelve. But I was running out of excuses by thirteen
            and fourteen. Do you see the flaw in my plan yet? Harry shakes his head. 
I cared about you too much. I became more concerned with your
            happiness and well-being than with the truth and the lives it could save. That was my
            greatest mistake. It was exactly what Voldemort expects from us fools who love.
               
 But I could not bear to tell you. I have watched you pass
            through greater trials than any other student in the history of this school, and I could
            not bear to add another one, the greatest one of all. He looks at Harry, sympathy and
            regret etched on his face. 
You have no idea the pain it causes me to tell it to you, even now.
            But unfortunately, I must. 
I don't understand, Professor. Dumbledore sighs again. 
The reason Voldemort tried to kill you is because of a prophesy made
            just before your birth. By attempting to kill you, he believed he was fulfilling the
            terms of the prophesy. Voldemort's mistake was that he had not heard the entire
            prophesy. 
 That is the weapon we have been guarding, and which he
            has been so desperately seeking: the knowledge of how to destroy you. Harry sighs this
            time. He looks at the floor. 
Professor, why am I so important to him? Harry hangs his head. 
An excellent question, Harry. The answer lies in the prophesy. 
Sir, it got smashed. 
That was not the only place the Prophesy is preserved.
"The One with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord approaches....Born
            to those who have thrise defied him, born as the Seventh Month dies...and the Dark Lord
            will mark him as his equal, but he will have a power the Dark Lord knows not...and
            either must die at the hand of the other for neither can live while the other
            survives....The One with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord will be born as the Seventh
            Month dies..." The image of Trelawney fades. Harry looks staggered. 
I'm not sure I understand all that, sir... 
It means that the only person with a chance of defeating Voldemort
            was born at the end of July to parents who had resisted him three times before. 
And...it means me? 
Interestingly, there were two boys whom the prophesy could have been
            referring to. You and Neville Longbottom. 
So it's not necessarily me, sir? 
You forget the next qualification of the prophesy. The Dark Lord will
            mark this boy as his equal. 
 In giving you that scar, Voldemort did
            so. I'm afraid that the prophesy is most certainly referring to you. 
What if he chose wrong? 
He chose the child he believed to be the more dangerous. He chose the
            "half-blood" wizard because he saw some of himself in you. 
 He tried
            to kill you and instead gave you the power and the future to destroy him. 
Why didn't he wait? Why attack when we were babies? 
Voldemort had an informant listening to my meeting with Professor
            Trelawney. Fortunately he was discovered before he could hear the entire prophesy.
            Voldemort had to act immediately, he didn't know the rest of the prophesy. All he knew
            was that he had to destroy the child who would grow to be a threat to his power. 
But I don't have any special powers. Dumbledore is silent for a moment. 
There is a room in the Department of Mysteries which is kept locked
            at all times. It contains a force so wonderful and yet terrible that it is greater than
            death itself. It is that power which you have incredible amounts of and of which
            Voldemort has none. 
What is it, sir? 
This power drove you to save Sirius tonight. It kept Voldemort from
            possessing you, he cannot bear to touch it. 
 In the end, it was your
            heart and not your head that saved you. Harry looks away. 
There is only the end of the prophesy which we haven't addressed. It
            states "neither can live while the other survives." Harry slowly looks up at Dumbledore. 
It is the final burden which I must place on you, Harry. 
One of us has to kill the other...in the end. Dumbledore nods, and there
            are tears misting his eyes. 
Yes.
 Hello, Harry.
Hey, Nick.
 I--Well, Madam Pomfrey asked me to tell you that Hermione and
            Ron are out of the hospital wing. 
Oh. Thanks. He stands and they begin to walk back to the castle together. 
Nick, I was wondering about something? Nick looks even more uncomfortable
            now. 
 I've been expecting this... 
Expecting what? 
 A lot of people come to me when they've lost loved ones. 
I expect so... There is a silence. 
 He's not coming back, Harry. There is another silence. 
 Few wizards choose the path I have chosen. 
Why? 
 I am neither here nor there, Harry. Trapped between two
            worlds. That does not appeal to most. 
 I know nothing of the secrets
            of death, Harry. I was afraid of it. I preferred to survive as a feeble imitation of
            life than face the vast unknown. 
 I often wonder if that was a wise
            decision. They approach the great doors leading to the entry hall. Nick looks at Harry. 
 I'm sorry I couldn't be of more help, Harry. Truly I
               am.
Harry!
How are you? 
Good as new, mate.
 How are you doing, Harry? Harry pauses for a
            long moment, thinking.
 
 Come on, let's go in to the feast. Harry shakes his head. 
You two go on. I want to be alone for a while.
I've got something to tell you. Something important. They stop and look at
            him again. 
But not right now. I'm not ready. 
Take your time, Harry. We'll be here when you are.
Hello, Harry. He walks up to her. 
It's the last night and I need to pack. 
Then why are you putting up signs? 
Oh, people take my things and hide them. 

         
 I don't think they like me much. Some of them call me
            "Loony" Lovegood. Harry looks at her in pity. 
Do you need any help looking? 
Oh no. It all turns up in the end. She looks at him serenely. 
Sirius Black. Hermione said he was your Godfather. 
Yeah. 
 Have you ever...you know... 
My mother. I was nine. 
I'm sorry. 
It's okay. It's not like I'll never see her again. 
Isn't it? 
Don't tell me you didn't hear them. The voices beyond the Veil? Harry looks
            startled. 
They were just out of sight, that's all. 
You mean we'll see them again? 
Of course. 
 Things always work out, in the end.