The water ripples in the breeze as the seagulls fly overhead. The ubiqui- tous windmills of this bright white world turn, their heavy creaking sound sailing on the air. Beneath the water, schools of fish swim in slow currents. High above the water, cable cars traverse over wires in the sunlight, clanging as they move along. At the world's central point, a grand tower stands. Inside the tower, the sun shines warmly on a pair of young boys seated at a table. The wall-length curtains ripple as the breeze wafts through the open window. On the table sits a game board with twenty playing pieces, thirteen black and seven white
The Boy in Black moves one of his black pieces and takes one of the white pieces, as you would in a chess game
The Boy in White takes a black piece with one of his white pieces
The boys keep playing
The Boy in Black looks up to a Keyblade on the wall with an eye set in its teeth
He picks up a white piece bearing a blank heart token
The Boy in Black gives a small laugh
He moves to claim another white piece
The Boy in Black smiles, peering at the other boy with his gray eyes
Far into the future, Sora, Donald and Goofy meet at Yen Sid's Mysterious Tower. The trio stand at attention as the former Keyblade Master sits in his tall chair
They nod
Sora looks sad and Donald and Goofy share concerned faces
Sora perks up and strikes various bodybuilding poses, to Donald's less- than-amusement
The sorcerer nods
Donald holds out his hand
Goofy joins with his own hand
Sora completes the trio
They stand at attention toward Yen Sid
Later, the three fly in the Gummi Ship, seemingly going nowhere. Donald and Sora cross their arms impatiently. Sora whines as Donald glares at him
Donald sighs
Sora stands up and walks behind his chair
He strikes a bicep pose, mimicking Hercules
Donald falls back into his chair, exasperated
He scratches his head
He gets an idea and runs back to his chair
He summons the Keyblade and aims it forward. The tip glows brightly and a portal opens ahead of the ship
Sora sits in his chair
He grabs the controls and the ship speeds off into space through the portal KINGDOM HEARTS II.9
Sora, Donald and Goofy land on Olympus in a small cave
He sees no one around
He mocks playing a trumpet. Donald listens for one, but shakes his head
Goofy looks around
Sora continues looking around
Sora scratches his head bashfully
He starts walking in a direction
Smirking, he makes a tough fist. Goofy giggles and Donald gives a sigh. Sora continues walking with Goofy following behind
Donald opens his eyes and jumps with a shout, running up to catch them. Soon, they reach a clearing with a few trees
Sora thinks
He walks closer to the edge and calls out
A wisp of smoke lands near them and out of the cloud appears...
Hades sighs
Hades whirls toward Goofy, startling him
The blue flame on his head bursts into a large red one, turning his skin red as well. He glares at Goofy for a moment before cooling himself down, becoming blue again
The trio summon their weapons
Hades walks away and they dispel their weapons
The sky turns dark and the ground shakes. An enormous shadow looms over them and Donald hides behind Sora before a blast of icy wind comes over the mountain. Above, lava flows from a nearby precipice
The wind gains speed and sheds its icy qualities. The three struggle to hold on but are swept up and off the mountain. Hades looks over his handiwork
He pauses
He turns away casually
He gazes upward at the Titans
They retreat into the mountain again. Hades waves as a corridor of darkness appears behind him
He turns to see...
Pete and Maleficent emerge from the portal
He points to his left
He thinks
Elsewhere, in the city of Thebes, Hercules wipes his hands together, having done some heavy lifting, when upon hearing the sound of screams, he turns, seeing Sora, Donald and Goofy flying towards him. His eyes widen and he jumps into the air, catching Sora and Goofy in both arms. He lands on one knee and stands
Hercules chuckles
Herc turns to see Donald caught on the fangs of a lion statue
Donald yells and crosses his arms with a glare. After Hercules saves him...
Sora looks around at the burning city, smoke plumes billowing into the sky. Several cracked stone building surround them. Hercules sighs
He strikes a hero pose and Sora mimics him
The four of them walk through the city toward a gigantic statue of our famous hero himself
Sora crosses his arms
Donald sees a shower of meteors over Herc's shoulder, but on closer look, they're actually...
Most of the Heartless land, while one strikes the statue of Hercules on the foot, causing the enormous statue to topple over. The trio take out their weapons
They fight the group of Flame Cores
Herc turns to see a flying white horse, Pegasus, land with a whinny near them, carrying Megara and Philoctetes. Meg, as her friends call her, jumps down from Pegasus with Phil in tow
He turns to the trio
They strike a pose. Meg walks back to Pegasus
Phil nods and follows her, leaping aboard the horse. Hercules approaches and strokes his mane. Pegasus lets off a loud whinny
Pegasus responds with a serious stare before taking off into the sky. The four watch until they're out of sight
Goofy lifts an ear and listens
Goofy points to their left
Hercules looks up to see a young girl trapped on a large rock against a stone wall
She almost slips
Sora slides to a stop
Herc thinks and turns to the fallen statue
Donald, Goofy and then Sora climb aboard the cape of the statue
They hang on as Hercules lifts the gigantic statue above his head with a grunt
Hercules aims the statue toward the fire and sends it sailing
They successfully rescue the girl in time
She bows
She giggles and runs off
Donald and Goofy nod
Maleficent portals in behind them
They turn in surprise as Pete follows her
The trio brandishes their weapons
Pete eyes Sora carefully
Sora frowns
Pete crosses his arms and raises an eyebrow in thought
Pete grimaces at her outburst
She turns and enters a portal of darkness
He waves them off and follows the witch
Sora runs after them but the portal closes in time. Sora stops, his shoulders slumping
Sora sighs, looking crestfallen
Sora crosses his arms
They proceed through the city, when another barrage of Flame Cores bursts through the buildings ahead, causing Goofy to yell. They defeat the Heartless and continue onward, however the path forward remains engulfed in flames. Sora approaches, but is burned
Goofy holds his shield out in front of him and pushes it against the fire. Seeing that he's okay, he turns to them
Sora and Donald catch on
Goofy tosses the shield to the ground and Sora and Donald leap aboard. Goofy gets ready to push
The shield slides forward over the fiery bricks as Goofy jumps on. They ride the shield sled-style through the flames as debris falls around them. At the end of the path, the flames die down and they hop off just as a huge fiery rock shoots from the sky
An immense structure held up by numerous stone pillars crumbles to the ground
They enter the Gardens section of the city where a young woman is trapped on top of a pillar, surrounded by Flame Core Heartless
She peers over the edge of the pillar
Sora, Donald and Goofy run up
They run down the stairs towards the fray and the woman sees them
The defeat the Heartless and the young woman descends from the pillar, running over to them
She giggles and waves, leaving Sora's smile to falter
Donald gives a sheepish look. On their way out of the Gardens, another meteor destroys a tower in the city. Pasing through an Alleyway, they enter the destroyed building and find Hercules stopping it from crashing onto a family inside
The trio runs in as the building continues to erode. Hercules struggles to hold it as debris rains down on all sides, sending up swirls of dust. The exit collapses
Heartless surround the terrified family
Sora runs up and summons his Keyblade
The trio make quick work of the Heartless while Herc shouts words of encouragement until his strength starts to waver
They run over to the three Olympians
As they run out a hole in the wall, Sora pauses, worried as Hercules begins to falter. Rounding the corner the ground starts to shake as the building collapses. Huddling together, Goofy summons his shield as a dust cloud blasts toward them. They look up as the last of the fallen rocks trickle to the ground. Goofy dispels his shield as Sora walks toward the rubble
Facing no response, the trio frowns before hearing footsteps. A large figure walks out of the cloud of dust, the hero himself coming into view. Hercules dusts off his armor and they exclaim joyfully. Herc brushes his chin with a sigh of relief
Herc flexes his biceps. Goofy chuckles and he and Donald mimic Herc. They hear a portal open and a familiar, though unwanted, face steps through, peering at them through his yellow eye
Hercules is speechless
He points toward Sora
Xigbar walks away from them, laughing to himself, and vanishes
Sora's face brightens
They continue walking along, before Sora stops, gazing at the spot where Xigbar disappeared
Heading further into the city, they blast through a small aqueduct, finding a large group of Heartless near the plaza fountain being led by a Rock Troll Heartless. They defeat the monstrous being and its tiny underlings when Pegasus returns carrying Meg and Phil. He lands with a winny, tucking his wings to the side
Herc puts a fist on his hip
Pegasus nods
Sora, Donald and Goofy smile excitedly, eliciting a small laugh from Megara. Pegasus alerts them to something up ahead. Phil peers over Meg's shoulder
Ominous dark clouds swirl over Mount Olympus
Sora nods to both Donald and Goofy in turn
Pegasus takes flight as the party makes their way toward the mountain. They travel across a ravine and ascend its steep cliffs. As they get closer to the summit, huge tremors shake the ground beneath them
He whistles into the sky and Pegasus swoops in, landing next to Herc
Pegasus nods
Hercules mounts his friendly steed
He takes off before they can respond
Sora thinks back to what Hercules told him earlier
He looks determined
The three of them continue forward, when a loud boom shakes the ground. They look over to see part of the mountain moving
The colossal Rock Titan tosses a gigantic boulder over the mountainside. The trio run away as it crashes, splitting into pieces. One rock blocks the exit back down the mountain. The tension is palpable as Sora races up the sharp walls dodging barrages of rocks thrown by the Rock Titan. One huge boulder strikes the cliff next to him, sending a rock slide over the edge, just a foot away. As they get closer, they enter the dark clouds and their view of the sun is obstructed. The Titan sees them getting nearer and stomps a foot against the precipice, causing a torrent of boulders in Sora's direction. With some quick footwork, he leaps from rock to rock, quickening his pace to the summit. A lit flame guides their way forward through a cave further ahead where they see flashes of light, proof that they have reached the thick of the storm clouds. Fighting Heartless in their path, the rain beats down in currents and lightning strikes the area around them. The Rock Titan, illuminated by the bolts in the air, hones in on the Keyblade wielder, sending a personal gift in his direction. It strikes just past his face, breaking the mountainside and blocking off the cave. For all the Titan's attempts, they succeed in reaching the Rock Titan. They strike at its feet, dodging when it tries to stomp them until cracks begin to show, causing the monster to fall against the mountain with a growl. With the Titan nearly motionless, they ascend their gigantic foe, striking at the two heads on its bulky body. Rain continues to pour as a power emerges from Sora in the shape of an illuminated train on magical roller coaster tracks. The trio ride in the train cars as sparks fly from the chimney of the Mountain Coaster. The Rock Titan attempts to punch the incoming train, but Sora sends a barrage of fireworks at the monster. The Titan howls and careens off the side of the mountain, tumbling all the way down. The three watch it fall
They follow the pathway ahead, following a cave to escape the storm. Bursting through a pile of rocks, they enter a bright light, finding a grand stairway into the clouds. Their spirits lightened, they rush up the stairs to a golden door and enter the Realm of the Gods
Trumpets sound suddenly, startling them
They summon their weapons as Heartless appear. Above the Cloud Ridge, Hercules demolishes Heartless aboard his trusty steed, flying toward the Apex. Hades has trapped Zeus, the king of the gods, in a cone of rock with the powers of the Ice and Lava Titans
The lava reaches above Zeus's head and Hades summons a dark throne to sit and watch his handiwork
He sits back with a smirk
Hades sits at alert and looks around
Hercules flies in with his sword
He turns to the gates of the Apex, where Sora, Donald and Goofy brandish their weapons. Hercules looks down to see the other gods of Olympus in chains and swoops down, releasing them with his sword. Hades growls, bursting into red flames
The Lava, Ice and Tornado Titans approach the trio
Herc jumps down off of Pegasus and joins them
They ascend the hardened lava cone to get a better vantage point of the Lava and Ice Titans while the Tornado Titan swirls in the wind around them. The Lava Titan sends out a barrage of molten liquid towards Sora, who dodges on the Ice Titan's side of the cone. After dealing the Ice Titan a blow to the face, it strikes back with a blizzard of icy breath in their direction. The Tornado Titan explodes in a gust of heavy wind, knocking the group back to the ground, making it hard to get back up. Combining their efforts, the Lava Titan glows red, spewing a rush of lava toward them as the Ice Titan focuses its energy into a beam of ice. Dodging upwards, they reascend the cone to continue their assault. Hercules grabs onto Sora's legs and spins him around like a top, using the Keyblade to strike at the two Titans until the Ice and Lava Titans collapse with exhaustion. The Tornado Titan moves in
The Tornado Titan wiggles through the air, facing its vortex toward the group. Large pieces of debris from Thebes sail out in their direction. Sora dodges the flying rubble, sending spells at the whirlwind, until the Titan tries another approach. Branching out from its main funnel cloud, it aims two smaller vortices at the group, sending them high into the seemingly endless sky. As they fall from such a height, the Titan spits out more ruins toward them along with burning lava sludge and sharp ice crystals. Successfully dodging the barrage, Sora strikes right between the glowing red eyes of the Titan. Suddenly, the Rock Titan bursts through the clouds below with an enormous bellow. The group is surrounded, causing worry to grow on Donald and Goofy's faces
Hercules leaps to the top of the cone, attempting to pry open the hardened rock with his hands. With a great struggle and a burst of light, Zeus emerges from the open stone
The trio rejoice and Zeus conjures a trove of lightning bolts
He readies his arm and tosses a bolt at the Rock Titan, splintering rock from both of its heads. The Lava and Ice Titan start to head-tail with the other Titans following, one of the Rock Titan's heads covering its face. The Tornado Titan passes Hercules and he gets an idea. Running alongside the Titan, Herc manages to grab the tail end of the funnel. Spinning it, he swings the head of the vortex toward the other three Titans, who get sucked up into the cyclone. With a final hurl, Hercules sends the tornado flying into space causing a brilliant explosion. Zeus and Herc laugh and exchange a high-five.
Sora, Donald and Goofy share their own high-fives as Hades glares at them
He points at them
Hades trembles with anger
He bursts into red flames
Hades stops, turning his head slowly toward Herc
He looks back in the trio's direction and turns blue again with a sigh
He slowly starts walking toward the gate
Hades stops and turns back, before getting a knuckle sandwich in the face
Hades clutching a hand to his face from his spot on the floor
He summons a portal in the form of clouds of smoke
Zeus chucks a lightning bolt into the portal just as it closes. Later, the gates to the Realm of the Gods open and the trio and Hercules run out. Herc stops and takes a glance back
He looks at the base of the stairs where Meg is waiting
He runs down the stairs
They share an embrace before the trio catches up
Sora shakes his head
Sora strikes a hero pose. Goofy smiles and Donald's face drips with sarcasm
They break into laughter. Meanwhile in the Gardens of Thebes, Pete has been busy digging through the ground while Maleficent oversees the job
Pete continues to dig
He strikes something solid and looks down
Pete lifts a box from the ground
Maleficent peers at it scornfully
She walks away
He looks at the box sadly, before tossing it over his shoulder and running to catch up with Maleficent. Gazing down at them from above is Xigbar
Darkness. A world without light. King Mickey and Riku travel through the Realm of Darkness in search of Aqua. Riku stops and Mickey turns back
Mickey shakes his head
Riku smiles, looking down at his hand
His thoughts drift to when he first held a Keyblade, when he met Terra at dusk on the Destiny Islands
They continue on to the End of Sea, the Dark Margin, a beach in shadow. A light shines from far across the water
Mickey solemnly shakes his head
A horde of Shadow Heartless emerge from the dark sand
They summon their Keyblades as the Shadows twitch hungrily
The Heartless run past them, gathering into a huge solitary mass, the Demon Tower. The pillar of Shadows wriggles in the air and dives into the sand near them, scattering the cluster of Heartless across the sand. Riku and Mickey strike down several of them before they reform into the tower from beneath them, tossing them into the air. After a struggle, the tower disperses and the remaining Shadows encircle them
Surging from the ground, the spinning maw of the tower hones in on Riku
Riku holds an arm up to shield himself but is hit head on by the Demon Tower
The tower regains its vertical shape, spinning fiercely with no trace of Riku. He floats in darkness with a sensation like drowning, muffling his sight and his hearing
Riku loses consciousness in the abyss. The next moment, he hears the sound of the waves
Riku opens his eyes, seeing Mickey's sad face leaning over him. The King's eyes brighten into a smile
Riku sits up
Riku stands, holding his head
He look down at the Keyblade in his hand, which has been severed just below the winged teeth
Riku walks to the edge of the water
Mickey walks up to him
Riku breathes a sigh of relief
Riku walks forward and plants his Keyblade into the sand
Meanwhile, Sora, Donald, and Goofy revisit Master Yen Sid in his tower
Sora crosses his arms with a loud sigh
Sora and Donald have a staredown
Sora slumps over and Donald and Goofy laugh, before they hear a knock at the door
The door opens and Mickey and Riku enter
Donald and Goofy each knock Sora aside to get to Mickey, causing him to fall over
Sora stands up, shaking off the fall and runs up
Donald and Goofy push him back to the floor
Riku and Mickey enchange glances, before the King's face turns sad. Sora sits up on the floor
Sora stands back up and joins them
Mickey shakes his head sorrowfully
Yen Sid closes his eyes pensively and Sora places a hand over his heart
Donald and Goofy jump in surprise
Sora nods
Mickey walks up to Yen Sid's desk
Mickey & Riku bow
He waves a hand over the table and two briefcases appear, one black & pink and one red
Riku and Mickey take them in hand
Sora laughs and Yen Sid appearifies a third briefcase
Sora runs up to the table
Sora picks it up, upside down
Sora turns the case the right way and grabs the handle with glee
He slings it over his shoulder
A small cricket in a top hat jumps onto the table, carrying the smallest of umbrellas
The sorcerer waves his hand and a purple crest appears in Sora's hand
Sora holds the crest tight
The group of them stand at attention and bow
Sora, Donald and Goofy huddle to themselves
Sora and Donald agree. Sora, Donald, Goofy & Jiminy leave the Mysterious Tower in their trusty Gummi Ship. Sora sits back in his chair as the ship chugs along
A quiet musical tune erupts inside the cockpit, surprising them
They look around for the source of the noise. Jiminy holds a hand to his ear
He searches his pockets and pulls out a device with the King's symbol on it. The icon of a telephone ringing is displayed on the screen
Donald and Goofy walk to Sora's chair to get a closer look
Sora puts it to his ear and shakes it
He presses the green button on the screen and an video of Dale appears
Chip runs into view
Chip and Dale speak into their own phone situated on the desk in the Library of Disney Castle
Dale nods, making a rectangle with his tiny fingers
Jiminy jumps onto Sora's shoulder
The video switches to a young man in a lab coat with long gray hair obscuring half of his face
The man stands at the computer terminal inside Ansem's Study in Radiant Garden
Aeleus walks behind Ienzo silently. He narrows his eyes and stops
Aeleus continues walking and Ienzo sighs, turning back to the phone
Donald crosses his arms, his eyes narrowing
He presses a key on the computer terminal
A digital readout of Sora and his Keyblade appear on the D.T.D. screen
Half of Sora's model on the screen flashes, bringing up red data windows
Ienzo taps his finger against the terminal
Ienzo ends his side of the call, and it switches back to Chip and Dale
The call ends and Jiminy hops down
Donald, Goofy & Jiminy nod
He holds out his hand and summons the Keyblade, aiming it out before him with a flash KINGDOM HEARTS III
The group voyages across the Ocean Between and find their destination, a sleepy village of eternal sunset, Twilight Town. They walk casually down Market Street toward the Tram Common, passing clothing and accessory shops
The tram passes in front of them, its trolley bell ringing
Donald and Goofy share a glance
Sora hears a voice, or rather, the words appear in his head
Three Dusk Nobodies appear behind Sora
Sora whirls around and summons the Keyblade as more appear. The fight the Dusks in the street until not a single one stands
Goofy scratches his head
Sora spins around to see a familiar trio running in from around a corner
The three continue running as a monstrous wave of Shadow Heartless rushes in from behind them
The wave gains ground on them as Hayner notices the group
They run right past them as Sora watches
The trio takes out their weapons as the wave spirals into the air as if facing them down. Sora provides several good hits on the flying swarm as Donald uses his magic spells, Goofy providing defense, until the Demon Tide flies off into the sky and away from them. Hayner, Pence, and Olette walk back over once the coast is clear
Hayner thinks
Goofy pulls out a photo of Hayner, Pence, Olette and Roxas standing in front of the Old Mansion, and hands it to Hayner
Pence pulls out his photo, where Roxas is missing, and Hayner remembers
They compare the two
Sora pulls out the Gummiphone
Everybody stands together in a pose
Hayner, Sora & Donald share a bemused look. Hayner and Sora look at Donald. A moment later, Sora poses with Hayner, Pence and Olette while Donald holds the camera
Donald shoves the phone into Goofy's hands and rejoins the group with a huff
Goofy snaps the photo and they see the result on the screen
She points at a symbol made of the circles on the wall behind her in the photo
Sora, Donald & Goofy are impressed
Sora points to the emblem, showing Donald and Goofy, whose eyes widen
Sora gives a small laugh
Sora, Donald and Goofy make their way out of town through the woods. Walking down the beaten path, they come upon a trail of fruit
Goofy looks up, seeing a small group of Powerwild Heartless in the trees
Goofy looks closer and sees a tiny rat trapped up in the tree
They summons their weapons and the Heartless jump down to fight. Once the Powerwilds are taken care of, the rat scurries down the tree toward them
They start to walk away, leaving the rat alone with the multitude of fruit, some even bigger than himself. The rat sighs and runs in their direction. He latches onto Sora by his shoe and crawls up to his head. He grabs two tufts of Sora's hair and jerks them back towards the fruit. Sora spins uncontrollably and starts walking back the way they came, making very exaggerated movements
Donald and Goofy stop and watch
Sora stops at an apple and the rat moves his hair downward, causing Sora to pick up the fruit
The rat turns Sora around
He pulls Sora's hair upward...
...and then downward, picking up another apple
The rat nods, smiling
The rat hops off Sora's head down to his hand, standing on the apple
The rat nods again
Moments later, the fruit is gathered into a nice big pile. Sora, Donald and Goofy kneel down to the rat's level
The rat makes a slicing, then swiping motion with his tiny, little arms
The three exchange glances of confusion and the rat sighs
They walk away
The rat watches them leave, then turns back to his pile of fruit. After exiting the woods, the trio reach the Old Mansion. Sora looks up at the white curtains blowing in the window and gets a major surge of nostalgia. For a moment, it is not Sora looking up at the curtains, but Roxas. In the blink of an eye, Sora snaps out of it, feeling a sense of loss
If Donald's face wasn't already white, it would have turned it, and he gives off a shiver. They stare at the door, hesitant to enter when a hand reaches for Sora's shoulder
Sora knocks the hand away and screams, causing Donald and Goofy to jump in terror. Sora sees Hayner, Pence and Olette have joined them
Hayner looks toward Pence, who nods
They look up at the mansion
They enter the mansion, making their way to the basement, where Pence spots a computer with numerous screens
He runs to the console and sits down
He types the password into the computer and the D.T.D. screen appears
He types another command into the computer, or attempts to, when the screen flashes red
He tries more keys, but only gets access errors and locked data
Sora's ringtone goes off in his pocket and he pulls out the Gummiphone. He answers the call and Ienzo appears on the screen
Ienzo laughs to himself
Sora holds the phone up to him
Hayner crosses his arms impatiently
Hayner sighs impatiently
His outburst surprises Ienzo
Jiminy pops out of Sora's hood
The time it takes to set up this network mixed with the inherent technobabble between Ienzo and Pence, Sora has fallen asleep holding the phone. The computer makes a sound through his snoring
Sora awakes with a start
He pauses, thinking how to translate this into Sora-speak
Sora hangs up and pockets the phone
Hayner starts to rush off
Pence thinks and counts on his fingers
Pence laughs
Hayner walks to the entrance and Olette follows
Olette giggles and the two of them leave
Pence sighs, making the trio chuckle. Sora, Donald and Goofy leave the mansion
Sora turns to see Ansem standing against the wall with his arms crossed, looking at them snidely
A corridor of darkness appears next to him and his Nobody persona emerges from its depths
With newfound exhuberance, they face the two enemies
He points directly at Sora
Ansem smirks as a herd of Neoshadow Heartless appear behind them. Xemnas waves his hand and Dusk Nobodies join them. Sora glares at them
The two disappear
The knight and the wizard face the creatures and Sora summons his Keyblade
Together, the three defeat the Heartless and Nobodies. Donald and Goofy regroup once the fighting is done, while Sora stands by himself, silently. The two give a sad sigh
He turns to the two of them
Sora nods and they run back through the woods to town, interrupted by a familiar voice
Donald and Goofy stop at the sound of the voice near a plaza where they see an elderly duck with a cane, top hat, and glasses. Tucked under one arm is a box
Sora walks back
Donald runs up to Scrooge McDuck with Sora and Goofy in tow
Donald shakes his head in embarassment
He holds out the box and Sora takes it
He opens the box seeing a decadent dessert topped with fruit
Scrooge's top hat twitches, getting his attention
The hat twitches some more, puzzling Sora
Scrooge takes off his top hat, revealing the gray rat from earlier, who hops down onto the crown of the hat
Little Chef smiles and nods
Little Chef strikes a confident pose
Little Chef mimes cutting, preparing, and serving a dish
The happy rat smiles eagerly
Little Chef scratches his head meekly
Donald and Goofy nod. After searching town for ingredients, the trio return to Le Grand Bistrot
They turn to see Hayner and Olette running towards them
Scrooge walks out from behind the three of them
He looks over at Olette, who pulls out a poster
She unravels the black-and-white poster which is titled Mickey & Sora in 'GIANTLAND' depicting a club-carrying bearded giant, holding up a rogue-dressed Mickey Mouse who looks ready to fight
The three gaze at the poster curiously
Sora takes out the Gummiphone
Olette gestures to the scrambled icon in the corner of the poster. Sora points the phone's camera at it and it scans the code with a bright sound. Olette rolls the poster back up
Donald turns to his rich uncle
He gestures to the restaurant, pointing at the logo with his cane
He cackles to himself
Donald, Goofy and Olette laugh
Olette catches on
Donald & Goofy nod
On the roof of a nearby building, Ansem and Xemnas watch from above. From behind them, a dark portal opens and Xigbar struts out
Later, Sora busts through the swinging doors into the kitchen of Le Grand Bistrot
He sees the kitchen empty
Little Chef runs in and crawls up Sora's leg
He reaches Sora's head and grabs onto his hair, same as before. He pulls on one tuft of hair and Sora lurches in that direction
He grabs a frying pan in his left hand and a spatula in his right
He spins around to face the stove
After a successful cooking experience with Little Chef at the helm, they leave Twilight Town hungry for more ingredients and also more worlds. In a Secret Forest, Kairi is writing a letter to Sora as the evening sun washes over her
She hears footsteps and look over to see Lea
He breaks his stare after a moment and tries to shrug it off, turning away
He scratches the back of his neck. She giggles, and he sits on a rock opposite her as she continues writing
She holds the notepad close
He remembers something
Kairi tilts her head, puzzled. Lea pulls out two sea-salt ice cream bars
Kairi smiles
He hands a bar out to Kairi, who take it
Lea chuckles sheepishly
Lea watches her take a bite, zoning out again
He averts his gaze
He looks out at the sunset as his words trail
The sun starts to get into his eyes
In the glare of the sun, Lea thinks he sees a different girl in Kairi's shadow. Her black hair sways softly in the breeze as she holds her ice cream with a smile. Lea's emerald eyes well up with tears and he drops his ice cream bar in shock. Unable to contain his feelings, the tears stream down his face
He quickly tries to wipe them away as Kairi gets closer to him
Lea sniffles
He stands
He points to his head
He walks away, leaving his ice cream bar in the grass. Meanwhile in Radiant Garden, Dilan leads Riku and Mickey to the Fountain Court, walking softly over the cobblestone terrain. Dilan stops, gesturing at their destination
Mickey's face takes on a serious look
And now for a commercial break... In the heart of Shibuya, a battle rages on between a group of fighters and the mechanical troopers known as Gigas. Atop a tall building a pink beam of light shoots into the sky. Racing through the rubble on the ground, a strong man with glasses tears through a Gigas with his large green sword, scattering the mechanical beast into disintegrating cubes. Running to catch up to him is another young man with silver hair who engages his red sword as more Gigas encroach on them. Swooping in on the silver-haired youth's left is a third young man wielding two thin blue swords, the wind whipping through his red hair. He aims a Blizzard spell at a (relatively small Gigas in front of them. Several more Gigas close in on the source of the beam of light on the roof. The source is a young woman with long hair clutching at her necklace as the pink energy swirls around her. The beam is directed at a point in the sky which takes on a circular blue shape forming a kind of gate. The clouds whirl around it as the surrounding skyscrapers are torn asunder, pieces falling upwards toward the gate. The red-haired youth holds off a Gigas with one sword-hand, while sending a Thunder spell toward a second with his other hand, destroying the foe. The man with glasses summons a green Barrier to stop an incoming Gigas as the silver-haired youth takes one out behind him. Dodging several blaster shots, the silver-haired youth sends a red spell at a Gigas while eliminating another with a slice from his sword. He lands on the ground just as a red Gigas flies towards him. As it rushes him, the boy summons a spinning orb, sending shards of the tiled floor into the air. The boy leaps above the orb and strikes downward through it, tearing apart the bubble and the Gigas inside it. The energy surrounding the girl grows in volume as the boy freezes a Gigas in place with a Stop spell. The frozen Gigas soon caves in on itself by way of a Gravity spell, which the boy sends through two other Gigas, trapping them. He slices through the amalgamation and gives a defiant look through his red and blue eyes. The three young men reach the edge of an adjacent building in time to watch the skyscraper being torn apart by the pink energy, blue lightning bolts shooting out from the gate. The three fighters leap into the swirling vortex as numerous Gigas fly toward them. The silver-haired boy destroys one Gigas with his crossbow and slashes at another with his red sword. Catching him off-guard, he is soon piled on by several blue Gigas before a large Reflect spell surrounds him and his friends. The redhead summons another Blizzard spell and shoots it through the green barrier, providing a tunnel of ice for the silver-haired youth to fly through. He reaches out his hand to the girl drifting in the pink abyss, her star necklace floating freely around her neck. She opens her eyes as he reaches her and their hands nearly touch. Suddenly the maelstrom around them breaks and the girl is ensnared by the claw of a Gigas. The trio land on the building as the girl cries out from its clutches. An enormous Gigas, bigger than the rest rises to meet them on the edge of the skyscraper. It opens a giant claw, summoning a cerulean blast. The boy stands in its crosshairs and his weapon folds down, igniting the red sword once again. He swings it back as his other weapon raises the arms of his crossbow. He slices the air and sends a shot from the crossbow, with the energy claw reflecting firmly in his blue eye. VERUM REX - Video game available now from Square Enix for the Play Plus console. Rated 12+ GIGAS Action Figures out now. Rated 6+ The television suddenly shuts off with a buzz as a cowboy doll carrying a wooden toy block steps over the TV remote)
Woody the cowboy walks off, leaving Rex the dinosaur and Hamm the piggy bank
Woody spots Heartless spawning on the floor from his view on the bed
Woody tackles Rex and Hamm and they go spiraling further onto the bed with a yell. Woody fixes his cowboy hat
Buzz Lightyear the space ranger jumps down to the bed joining the others
They peer over the side of the bed to see a group of Toy Trooper Heartless scouting the floor
Woody gazes over to a shelf across the room where a pair of Green Army Men stand on the edge of a bucket. They give a salute to a trio of Little Green Men who wave in Woody's direction. Woody returns a salute
Woody nods as Sora arrives in the room next to a giant toy ball under the bed
He passes an equally oversized xylophone and soccer ball
He looks up to the larger-than-life bedside table and realizes
He looks at himself, a similar figure though with considerably more plastic
Something to their left catches Goofy's eye
Donald and Sora look over
They summons their weapons and run at the Heartless
Buzz's wings open suddenly when he sees the trio arrive
Rex, already at a running start, almost falls off the bed
Buzz directs Woody's gaze back to the floor
Sora, Donald and Goofy take out all the Heartless as the toy gang make their way to the wooden floor
Rex shoves past the rest of them toward a confused Sora
Hamm catches up
A red dot appears on Sora's chest as Buzz stands on alert
Rex excitedly tackles Sora
Rex shakes Sora's hand as Buzz continues staying his distance, walking around them in a circle
Buzz stares at the laser gun on his arm
Woody casually walks up to Sora, surprising Buzz
Hamm chuckles
He offers a hand and Sora shakes it
Rex gets forlorn looks from everyone and joins the rest of Andy's toys
The Green Army Men walk up to the group
The Army Men salute and Sora, Donald and Goofy return it. A rolling sound catches their attention and they hear a squeak as the three Little Green Men coast toward them on Andy's skateboard
Sora, Donald and Goofy leap out of the way. After leaving the skateboard, the toy aliens waddle over to Donald, their eyes blinking individually
He sees Buzz walking towards him as the aliens go on their way
Sora covers his mouth
Hamm agrees while Woody walks over
Sora nods and Woody gazes up at the window over Andy's desk
He sits on a wooden block and stares at the underside of his shoe where the name ANDY is written in faded ink
Woody nods and stands back up, rejoining the group
He places a hand on Buzz's shoulder and the toys smile
He extends a hand once more to Sora, who reciprocates
Goofy, Rex, Hamm and the aliens share a delighted response
Woody kneels toward the Army Men
He points to the Galaxy Toys flyer on Andy's bulletin board
He looks up to the window and the others follow his gaze
Buzz smiles
They exit through the window and down the roof of the garage to the driveway, engaging in spars with the Heartless that block their way. They reach Galaxy Toys, home of Vic the Visitor, their alien mascot, displayed by the gigantic flying saucer that stands atop the building. They cross the threshold and enter the enormous toy store, Rex running in ahead
Everyone follows in awe of the spacious place. Large displays of Gigas are scattered on different shelves along with game boxes of all kinds. In the center of the first floor is an oversized gumball machine labeled Space Capsule with metal tracks leading in spirals to the upper floors. Sora notices the giant red Gigas
Sora and Woody look above the Space Capsule, where a black hooded figure enters through a dark portal, uncovering his hood and revealing himself to be Young Xehanort
He snaps his fingers and three Heartless appear. One jumps into the helmet of the red Gigas and assumes control of it. Its claw arm starts to move with clicking sounds and it leaps toward Sora. Woody raises his hat to see better
The arm spins backwards into a fist with Hamm giving off a startled shriek
As the Gigas attempts a punch, Sora, Donald and Goofy hold him off while Woody knocks Hamm out of the way
Hamm runs off to hide behind a potted plant with Rex. Young Xehanort summons the portal again and begins to enter
Young Xehanort leaves and the Gigas knocks the trio away. Woody catches Sora, while Buzz saves Donald and Goofy
The Gigas stands, aiming its arm cannon at them
The cannon fires bursts, causing them to flee in opposite directions, hiding behind shelving units
Donald and Goofy point to a large blue Gigas on the wall with an already open helmet
Sora runs toward the Gigas, taking a spinning leap and landing inside. He grabs onto the two control sticks inside and closes the helmet, leaping down to the floor to face off against the Heartless-controlled Gigas. Using the toy mech's various blasters, punches, and explosions, he defeats the main Gigas troops while the others take down the small Heartless legions on the floor. The red Gigas slows to a stop and the helmet opens as a Heartless disappears, the Heart being released from inside it. Sora leaps out of the blue Gigas
Buzz turns away
Sora is lost for words
He waves Sora off and walks away towards Woody
Donald and Goofy rejoin the group
He puts a hand on Buzz's shoulder. Buzz clears his throat
Donald and Goofy look crestfallen
Buzz starts walking toward the red Gigas
He points to the Gigas. Woody falls silent
Woody looks atop the shelf to see Sarge and another Green Army Man
Sarge turns to his fellow soldier, who salutes
Woody begins running and Sora follows
Woody looks over his shoulder at Buzz who hasn't budged and runs back over to him
Buzz gives an abject sigh
Donald throws his hands up and Sora chuckles
The Army Men salute and walk off. The group walks over to the Space Capsule and Buzz ejects his wings right as Woody walks into them. He scowls at Buzz for a moment, but the feeling passes
Woody leans on Buzz's wings, but Buzz retracts them back into his suit
Sora points upwards and they see the spiral tracks leading to the other floors
They ride the rails up to the 2nd Floor and enter a store named Action+, where they gaze in awe of the seemingly endless shelves of action figures. Woody sees something tail-shaped out of the corner of his eye and he turns in surprise
He dashes around the corner of a display, but sees no one there
Sora sees waves of darkness though a break in the boxes on display where something is moving
With a huge swipe of its claw, an immense dragon model toy called the Supreme Smasher knocks over the display of Smasher toys in front of them. Donald starts running back to the exit, when the store's sliding door slams shut. The Supreme Smasher lets out a giant bellow and they clearly see the Heartless symbol emblazoned on its neck. They summon their weapons
Buzz shakes off a worrisome look and readies his laser
They manage to free the controlled toys and Sora dispels his Keyblade with a sigh of relief. Suddenly, another Supreme Smasher lands behind them and roars. Sora hears a scream and looks over to see a dragon-shaped glider hooked to the ceiling flying in circles piloted by a shouting Rex. It spins at full speed, knocking the hook out of the tile, sending the glider and Rex flying into the Supreme Smasher just as it reaches back for a claw slash at Sora. The dragon toy falls over as Rex flies into an Air Droid display along with an orange puppet hanging from a cloud-like gear. After landing on the floor, the gear tries to float away but Rex lands on it
The puppet turns its head to face Rex menacingly, revealing a Heartless symbol on its hat
He runs away from it while Sora strikes down the Marionette Heartless with one swipe of his Keyblade. Woody sighs with relief, wiping his brow
He turns to Donald
Donald and Woody try to calm Rex down
Rex stops
Woody hears a clicking sound of plastic on metal and looks up to see the sergeant climbing down the vent near the ceiling
The group smile with the good news
The group sighs
Woody and the group start walking ahead, while Rex stays put
Sora looks up at the vent
Rex makes a determined fist with his little arm and Buzz salutes him. Sora and the rest chuckle and make their way up into the ventilation shaft. Using the vents to reach the third floor of Galaxy Toys they exit into the Dolls section of Babies & Toddlers
Goofy bends down to speak to the sergeant
Sarge hops to face him
Sora peers out through the vast toy section
Donald walks off, cackling
Donald breaks into a run
Donald runs around Goofy
They end up in a standoff around Goofy
Sora tries to grab Donald but he runs past him and shakes his tailfeather
Goofy chuckles and Sora runs after him
Donald tries to run around Goofy again but Sora blocks him, prompting Donald to dive through Sora's legs. Goofy laughs harder
He laughs, leaping back to his feet
They continue playing cat and mouse
Woody smiles softly at Buzz
They search through the store, taking out more Heartless-possessed toys, until they reach a large gramophone in the corner at a display labeled Musical Toads. Sora hops onto the turntable
He begins to run on the record and the symphony of toads on the display light up and begin playing
Sora slows down and the music stops as Woody leaps up onto the record as well
He starts running along the record, throwing Sora off-balance. Sora returns to a run and laughs as the orchestra continues playing
One of the instruments plays a false note
Distracted, Sora slows down and almost crashes into Woody
Sora speeds back up and Goofy calls up to him
Sora and Woody exchange glances
Sora jumps down from the turntable
Sora, Donald and Goofy search the orchestra for the instrument that's playing off-rhythm and find that it's the tuba-playing toad. Woody struggles to catch his breath as he keeps the music playing while Goofy peers into the tuba
Sora reaches into the tuba, feeling around for the obstruction. He finds it and struggles to get it unstuck
With a loud pop, he pulls out...
...the corporal. Sora places him gently on the table
The sergeant hops down from a higher ledge and walks over to the corporal, placing a hand on his back
Sarge gets the soldier to his feet and puts his arm around his shoulders, hoisting him up
The corporal tries to walk his injured self, but falls over
Sarge helps him stand again
Sora, Donald and Goofy salute them and the corporal starts tearing up
The Green Army Men walk off as the music continues to play and Woody continues to run. They reach the edge of the orchestra ledge and give Woody a salute
They hop down the ledge
Woody leaps off the record player and the music slows to a stop
Woody falls to his hands and knees, trying to catch his breath
Buzz hops off the table and Woody gives an exhausted salute. They soon find a dollhouse that's rattling around in a window display. They struggle to get the side of the house open, but with everyone's help, it unlatches, and the five of them land in a pileup
Hamm walks out of the dollhouse much to their surprise
He nods over to the fully-furnished inside of the house, where Donald steps inside
He walks by the window where a giant doll peers inside
The doll brims with darkness and its sudden appearance causes Donald to thrash about the house
Hamm shrieks in terror and backs away
The doll's eyes glow orange, matching the glowing Heartless symbol on her left bunny ear
Hamm runs away
They fight the possessed Angelic Amber doll along with a horde of Bouncy Pets and Patchwork Animals also under the Marionette Heartless's control. The doll stops floating and its eyes return to their normal shade of blue. It slumps against the floor, lifeless
Woody places a hand on his shoulder
He flicks his hat upwards
Buzz gives a small smile
They return to the window, Buzz helping Woody up to the windowsill, and meet back up with Hamm. Donald and Goofy spot something through the glass
A UFO with a crane claw sails past the window, a trail of darkness behind it
Woody adjusts his hat
They open the window right as the UFO passes by and Woody waves them through when the coast is clear
Woody leaps out the window
Hamm leaves and Woody rejoins the group
They enter the Outdoor playplace of Babies & Toddlers where the UFO is flying through. The Aliens spot it with glee
The UFO stops over the three Aliens and the claw descends, sending the group running after them
The Aliens are snatched up into the mothership
Surrounded by Toy Trooper Heartless, Sora, Donald, Goofy, Woody & Buzz take down the possessed UFO. It drops the Aliens and falters in the air, eventually losing power and sinking to the floor
They start to run in different directions
Sora picks one up with a squeak
Sora sets the Alien down
Donald and Goofy sigh
He turns
The Aliens waddle to follow Buzz
Sora nods and Donald hops in place
Goofy chuckles
Sora laughs and runs up to Woody and Buzz, Donald and Goofy following suit
They return to the first floor
He points to the Green Army Man as he walks past him
The Army Men, Hamm, and the Aliens form a line as Buzz walks by them
The Army Men salute and each Alien squeaks as they raise their hands
The pig points up to the third floor and Buzz sighs
He gives a worried look
They return to the third floor and enter the video game store where they find Rex among the Verum Rex merchandise
He hops down and rushes over to Sora with the game in his hands
He holds it almost too close to Sora's face, trying to show him the cover
The cover shows an image of the silver-haired Yozora lazing on stone steps with his sword and crossbow
Buzz and Woody walk further into the game store around a giant poster for Verum Rex, where they can see a much larger version of the game cover
Buzz looks over to them as something catches Rex's eye
Sora leans over to speak privately with Donald
He trails off slowly
Rex is reading the back cover of a Play Plus strategy guide
He drops the book and searches through the shelf, tossing books aside
He manages to find the Verum Rex guide
Buzz takes the book and tosses it away. Rex's face turns sad and Buzz consoles him with a tap him on the snout. Rex walks away hesitantly from the book, following Buzz back to the group. A figure with a pair of boots lands on the floor nearby
The voice catches their attention and they summon their weapons
Xehanort smirks
A Marionette Heartless dangles behind them unknowingly
It strolls up to Buzz and he gives a face of surprise before the Heartless disappears and his body goes quiet
Darkness emanates from Buzz Lightyear and he activates his laser, aiming it at Woody's head. Woody gasps before raising an eyebrow
Buzz fires the laser just as Goofy leaps in front of Woody with his shield
Buzz fires a few more shots
Sora attacks Xehanort, who phases away in the blink of an eye
Young Xehanort walks around the room, phasing in and out as Sora tries to strike him down, but only slicing air
Sora looks around, seeing Xehanort on a high display case above a video screen
Sora leaps to the top of the display with another failed attack
Sora finds him walking along the display and Xehanort dodges each of Sora's blows effortlessly
He appears on the floor and Sora leaps down at him, striking nothing
Donald and Rex are trying to hold Buzz at bay, but he continues his laser blasts unflinching as Goofy stops them from hitting Woody
Sora tries to run to their aid, but Xehanort snatches him up
Xehanort summons a concentrated energy blast near Sora's waist, which then explodes, blasting him into the nearby video screen. He phases into it, sending a ripple through the screen. He lands on a metal surface of an enormous boat several miles from a nighttime city skyline
Young Xehanort teleports out of the store as Sora comes face to face with the Gigas inside Verum Rex
After a few minutes, Sora leaps out of the television screen to the delighted faces of his friends
They don't know how to respond aside from worry
Woody sighs
Woody breathes a large sigh as the Green Army Men walk nearer
Woody's disposition lightens
He kneels down close to the sergeant with a wide smile
He turns back to Sora and the others
They return to the Outdoor section of Babies & Toddlers
High above on a windowed wall with the design of a house is a much smaller window
They make their way up through the window and enter the Kid Korral, where Sora sees odd green cubes piled against the main door
Sora pilots a nearby blue Gigas, stretching its arm out. He activates the claw which sends magnetic bolts to the green blocks, causing them to glow and disperse, unbarring the door. They move further into the room where Donald spots something
A stream of darkness emanates from the uppermost vent in the room, much too high to reach by normal means, especially at toy height
Heartless appear as they reach another pile of green blocks, but they are quickly taken out. Sora uses a Gigas again to pile them closer to the vent
They find another pile in a room with multicolored blocks
Once all the blocks have been gathered and piled up, three cones land on top of the green figure assembled and a fanfare plays. The figure, with a permanent surprised look on its face, leans over toward the wall, providing a path up to the vent
The vent cover falls open
The party makes their way to the vent and enters it, finding a corridor of darkness
Sora and the group pass through the ominous portal, finding themselves in a hazy abyss. Buzz is hovering in the center, darkness coming off of him and spreading through the air. Young Xehanort waits for them, waves of dark energy covering the floor as pieces of toys are scattered about the abyss, floating on invisible strings
The waves punch upward
The waves coalesce around Woody
Donald and Goofy nod in agreement, glaring at Xehanort
Woody looks at the bottom of his shoe where Andy had written his name years ago, and then at Buzz's, just the same. Buzz is carried higher by the waves as Xehanort raises an arm
Sora is stunned to silence, but Woody places a hand on his shoulder and walks past him
Woody stamps down with his foot, breaking the waves of darkness slightly, revealing the floor underneath
Sora joins him in their circle of light, both making steps forward
The force of light breaks through the dark waves, tearing apart the darkness holding Buzz in the air. As it reaches Buzz, it shines out with a brilliant light
Sora, Donald and Goofy charge forward, forcing Xehanort to summon his Keyblade, blocking the three of them
Woody leaps forward over them, tossing out the pullstring from his back. It latches onto a Lego floating in the air and Woody swings around, using the momentum to snatch Buzz from his tangled perch. Sora smiles as Xehanort scowls as the pullstring retracts back inside Woody with a message of Giddy-up, partner! We gotta get this wagon train a-movin'! Suddenly, Buzz opens his eyes, seeing Woody on top of him. Woody lifts his head and gazes back at his friend. He turns over and sits with Buzz, who holds his head
He realizes what Woody is saying. The cowboy extends a hand to him and Buzz smiles, taking it, getting to his feet
The two of them look over to see the trio locked in combat with Xehanort
Young Xehanort knocks the three of them back
Buzz aims his laser beam at Young Xehanort
Sora runs at Xehanort and slashes right through him
Xehanort vanishes and Donald leaps up, pointing at the sky where the darkness has begun to break
The group rejoins as the darkness is swept up, forming a giant flying saucer Heartless, revealing the room as a toy-sized cityscape with a puzzle-piece road
After a long battle with the King of Toys involving an electromagnetic tornado, they succeed in finishing off the Heartless and return to the first floor of Galaxy Toys. They regroup with their friends and begin walking toward the exit
Sora hangs his head and stops walking
Woody, Buzz and the others turn back to him, confused
Woody and Buzz look at each other and smirk
Donald and Goofy give a sad sigh
Woody walks up and leans on Sora's shoulder
Sora laughs
The space ranger extends a hand
Sora shakes his head, smiling, and shakes Buzz's hand
Sora and Woody exchange a look, pointing at themselves
They all laugh
Sora scratches his cheek
Buzz puts a hand on his shoulder
He touches his heart, smiling. Woody puts an arm around Sora
They continue walking to the exit
He points to Sora's heart
The group extends joyous laughter and infectious smiles as Sora side-hugs Woody
Sora, Donald and Goofy leave the Toy Box and sail on again in the Gummi Ship. Sora sits in his chair with his hands behind his head and nowhere to go. Donald and Goofy walk to his chair
Jiminy Cricket hops out of Sora's hood
He takes out the phone
He dials and Mickey pops up on the screen
They shove themselves into the view of the camera
Riku kneels down to Mickeys level as the King holds out the camera
There is a moment of near silence among them while they think, the only sound from the water fountain at Radiant Garden. Riku gets an idea
He remembers his doppelganger from the events at Castle Oblivion
They look slightly ashamed
They explain what they discovered about Terra
Donald and Goofy block Sora again
They hang on as Mickey and Riku chuckle
Riku stands
Sora pilots the Gummi Ship to a new world with a tall tower in the middle of a deep forest, the Kingdom of Corona
A girl sits at the window of a tower gazing at night sky, her unusually long hair trailing to the floor behind her. Her lonely look changes upon seeing the floating lights in the sky
Some time later, Sora, Donald and Goofy walk through a picturesque forest. Goofy puts his hand up to block the sun
Sora stretches
They hear a scream and stop in their tracks, looking around for the source of it. Then with grunting and a final slide, a man falls down the hill behind them. He groans, massaging his back, then looks back where he came from, where a troop of Heartless fly down after him. The man gets up and scampers away, the satchel on his hip flapping with every step. He runs toward the trio with the Heartless on his tail, flailing his arms wildly
Sora, Donald and Goofy part so he can pass them, then summon their weapons
The man finds a rock to hide behind, catching his breath and peering out at the group
The dashing man gives off a sigh
Donald turns around again and Flynn starts creeping away
He dashes away as fast as he can while Sora, Donald and Goofy take out the multitude of Heartless. After the fight, they see no sign of Flynn Rider
He points toward a spot between the trees that veers into a small clearing with rocky hills on each side
Goofy crosses his arms, thinking
They search the area for Flynn and approach the rocky hillside ahead
Sora sees no exit nearby and turns to face Donald & Goofy, his back to a patch of leafy vines
He tries to lean against the vines, but stumbles right through them. Goofy turns at the rustling sound, but Sora has disappeared
Goofy walks over to the vines and hears Sora's voice through them
Sora stands up as Goofy and Donald pull the vines apart to find a small hollow in the mountain. They run through the cave until emerging into a small valley with a lone tower standing in its center. Made mostly of brick, the tower has vines running along its side indicating it must have been there for years. Behind the tower, a waterfall runs over the mountainside into a small pond that glistens in the sunlight. Inside the tower, Flynn wakes up tied to a green chair by yards and yards of golden hair. He struggles to get free and raises an eyebrow as Rapunzel steps from the shadows wielding a frying pan. Flynn takes the opportunity and gives her the smolder
Rapunzel is unfazed and decides to brandish the frying pan, making Flynn wince
His eyes go wide
He looks frantically around the room from his position in the chair
She continues to threaten him with the culinary club
She walks around the chair, her hair twisting over Flynn's legs
Rapunzel looks him over hesitantly before a tiny green chameleon emerges onto her shoulder, narrowing his eyes at the sight of Flynn. The chameleon looks back at Rapunzel, uncurling his tail and motioning with it, points toward the door to her right. She walks over, and Flynn again struggles to escape. After convening with her chameleon, Rapunzel places him back onto her shoulder
She pulls on the chair, twirling him around, and steps onto the fireplace, toppling him and the chair over
She pulls apart a red curtain where a mural of the floating lights has been painted on the wall. Flynn looks up from his squished position on the floor
She points at him with the frying pan
He lifts himself up with his hands and flips the chair onto its side
He includes the air quotes
The chameleon appears again and locks eyes with Rapunzel, making a punching motion with his front legs. She puts down the frying pan and jumps from the fireplace, gathering the strand of hair attached to the chair into her arms
She tugs on the chair, getting it to stand up
She walks forward, gripping at her hair with each step closer
She pulls again, the chair leaning forward, and catches it, her face inches from his. He pauses, clearing his throat
His eyes narrow slightly
He raises an eyebrow
She stares at him intensely
He smirks
She smiles brightly
He turns his head with a smile. Meanwhile, Sora, Donald and Goofy admire the tower in the glade
As they near the base of the tower, they see Flynn climbing down the stones on the outside with a pair of arrows. He pauses, resting for a moment, when Rapunzel flings her hair down out the window, rappelling herself down the tower. She stops before she hits the ground and slowly extends a bare foot to the warm grass beneath. She takes in the feeling of her first taste of earth and kneels down, feeling the ground under her hands
Several dandelion seeds fly into the wind before her and she stands
She starts running, not even noticing the trio as she passes them. Sora, Donald and Goofy run over to Flynn as he reaches the bottom of the tower
Rapunzel steps into the pond, laughing as she steps over the small stones lining the bottom
She takes a handful of water and splashes it upwards with a shout of glee and loud laughter
The sun beats down on her golden hair as she takes in her decision. She grabs her face
She grabs her head
She spins around
She gasps
She sits on a rock holding a flower
She cries in the hollow cave
She runs through the grass, kicking up leaves. Donald laughs while Flynn rolls his eyes
She leans her head against a tree
She does cartwheels through the flowers, wrapping herself in her hair
She lies facedown on the ground
She swings around a large tree by her hair where Flynn and Sora wait for her to even out
She sobs into her hands at the base of the tree. Flynn walks over to her, with the trio following
She stops crying and turns to see them. She gasps and holds out the frying pan toward Sora, Donald and Goofy
Flynn steps in-between them
The chameleon appears from under her hair, skeptical of them
She lowers the frying pan
Sora grabs Flynn's arm and spins him around
They pose together and Sora gives a small laugh
Flynn motions to Rapunzel and leads her forward
The trio walks behind them as Rapunzel admires her surroundings
Sora realizes he's getting sentimental
He points at Donald, smiling
Sora laughs as Donald bursts out in anger. Sora runs to catch up to Rapunzel and Flynn, putting his hands behind his head. Goofy chuckles as Donald seethes
Goofy runs after Sora, and Donald follows
Soon, they reach a patch of wildflowers and something catches Rapunzel's attention
She runs up to the ball of fluff and inspects it, her fingers grazing the surface. Into the air sprout multiple tufts of fluff that, when the reach the ground, burst into Puffball Heartless. The Chief Puff itself pulls out of the ground and stares at her with its glowing yellow eyes, scaring her
Sora, Donald and Goofy run ahead of her and summon their weapons
She runs back to Flynn, throwing her arms around him and using him as a shield. At first he is surprised, but smirks soon after, seeing an out
She loosens her grip on him
He tries to get her to walk back, but she whirls around and punches him in the chest
Rapunzel bravely gathers her hair in her arms and runs back to Sora and company
They engage the plant-like Heartless and take them down. Meanwhile back at the tower, Mother Gothel has returned to find Rapunzel missing. She scrambles through the house in desperation
She runs into her room
She frantically tears down the curtain covering the window, but finds no one there. She clutches her face in terror before a glint of light catches her eye from beneath the stairs. She opens the bottom step and pulls out a satchel. Reaching into the satchel, she removes a sparkling tiara and at the sight of it, drops it in fear. Terrified, she looks further in the bag, taking out a Wanted poster for one Flynn Rider
She whirls around
Stepping out from a portal is a man in a black coat with long rose-colored hair. The abrupt entrance causes the frightened woman to drop the poster as Marluxia steps closer
Mother Gothel's eyes slowly turn pink. As Sora, Donald, Goofy, Rapunzel and Flynn continue their trek to the Kingdom, they find a large field of...
She runs ahead into the patch of flowers
She kneels down and blows on a few of them, sending their seeds into the air
Sora summons an Aero spell, wafting the large patch of them into the air. The float past Rapunzel's wide-eyed stare
They continue along the path
They find a trio of rabbits
The rabbits run into the brush at the Heartless's appearance
After a brief brawl with the Heartless, the rabbits hop back out
They dash away
They follow the rabbits to a chest hidden through a path in the trees
The rabbits hop away
Further through the forest, the group finds a small lake
She dashes into the lake
Sora follows her into the lake, where she gives him a little splash
He splashes her back
She splashes him again and he covers his face
He summons the Keyblade and splashes the water into the air. The water droplets sparkle in the clear sun creating a band of colors
They leave the lake and continue through the forest, Rapunzel's long hair trailing behind her as they come upon a strange plant stuck in the ground in a clearing alone
She winks at him
Sora walks closer
Sora approaches the odd vegetation and examines it while everyone waits with bated breath. After seeing no imminent threat from the flower, he turns to the group
They sigh with relief, but too late, as the flower's petals open, folding downward as its form changes to that of a creature holding a scythe with a familiar symbol on its face
He points behind Sora, who turns just in time as the pink and white creature swings its immense scythe at him. Sora dodges away and summons his Keyblade with gritted teeth, joined by Donald and Goofy
More of them appear
He rushes to Rapunzel
Sora nods with a smile
They nod and leave them to it. Sora, Donald and Goofy take out all the Reaper Nobodies and regroup
They look around and a corridor of darkness appears behind them
A tall man with long pink hair emerges from the portal, peering at them through yellow eyes
He turns to Donald & Goofy
Donald and Goofy shake their heads
They glance at him with confused faces
Donald & Goofy nod in agreement
He muses on this for a moment and Sora raises his eyebrows for him to continue
They take defensive stances
He vanishes in a corridor of darkness
Goofy scratches his face and Sora looks around
They continue through the forest in search of Flynn and Rapunzel
Soon the forest turns into marshland and the fog obscures their view ahead. Still no sign of them, Sora sighs
A hooded figure quickly hides behind a tree
Mother Gothel peers at them from beneath her cloak
Mother Gothel averts her gaze and begins to leave
She stops at Rapunzel's name and turns back, lowering her hood
They turn to her as she walks toward them and exchange glances
She waves them off and continues walking
They search for Rapunzel and Flynn, eventually exiting the marshland into more bright forest. Soon, they hear a voice
Ahead, a terrified Flynn has his back pressed against a rock while Rapunzel attempts to calm down a large white horse. The angry-looking horse peers at the chameleon atop Rapunzel's head. Pascal motions with his three-toed front feet to settle down. The horse, wide-eyed, raises an ear and sets his rump down on the ground with a dispirited whinny
She pets the bridge of his nose and his tail starts to wag
The horse nods sadly
Rapunzel moves closer to give him a hug
The horse shakes his head
The horse nuzzles against her
She scratches under his chin and peers at the name on his collar
Maximus stamps his foot and whinnies at the attentive petting as Flynn gripes on the forest floor
Maximus glares at him
Rapunzel helps Flynn up and Maximus narrows his eyes at her
Flynn begrudgingly offers a hand, but Maximus refuses, looking away
Maximus grumbles softly and offers his hoof. They shake, their scowls unbroken. Rapunzel looks ahead, seeing the trio running toward them
Behind Rapunzel's back, Maximus punches Flynn in the side and smirks
The horse walks over
Maximus inspects them dubiously
He nods. Flynn gets up, clutching his side and pointing onward
They make their way through the wetlands and rocky cliffs where they find a clearing with an odd looking tower on wheels. A Powerwild Heartless smacks its monkey-butt at them summoning a multitude of Powerwilds. The tower shoots cannonballs at them as they attempt to dispose of the surrounding Heartless. Once the Powerwilds are gone, the tower's three sections topple to the ground and a horse-like Heartless bursts from one of the windows, effectively becoming a carriage
They defeat the Chaos Carriage and enter the Wildflower Clearing
She runs up to them, but they flutter away
Sora approaches the birds carefully and guides them to Rapunzel. One of the bluebirds sits on his hand and he shows it to her
They gather around Rapunzel and chirp out a song
She smiles and they watch the birds fly off. After sliding down a giant hill of flowers, they reach the edge of the Kingdom in full view of the castle
Sora walks over
They cross the bridge and enter the castle town, Rapunzel giggling to herself all the way
They enter the Thoroughfare, where Rapunzel has her hair braided and adorned with wildflowers. She spots a large tiled mural of the king and queen holding their baby daughter. She peers down where a girl is placing a flower at its base
Rapunzel looks up at the baby on the mural, who has green eyes and flowing blonde hair just like her. Music starts suddenly, distracting her, and she gleefully begins dancing in the street. A crowd of people gather around and join in and Flynn stands watching her
Sora joins in dancing with the townsfolk
They dance around the sun-shaped circle of stones on the ground. Maximus notices Flynn leaning against him and knocks him forward into the crowd
Flynn scowls at Maximus as Sora grabs his hand, the horse laughing. Everyone joins in the sunwheel dance and Sora gives Rapunzel a high-five. Flynn and Rapunzel spin into each other's arms as the music stops. They pause for a moment looking into the other's eyes
They break apart at the distraction with soft surprise. The sun sets and the trio watch from one of the docks, Maximus from another, as Rapunzel and Flynn take a boat to the middle of the lake. They gaze up at the castle against the darkly lit sky
They look up as a solitary lantern peeks out from behind the castle, floating slowly up into the sky. Rapunzel hastily stands up, rocking the boat and grasping at the stern, as multitudes of floating lanterns pool out of the castle gates. Soon the entire kingdom is enveloped in a flock of lights floating softly into the air. Rapunzel leans her head on the wood as she gazes longingly at the magical sight. She turns back to Flynn holding two of his own in his hands. She happily sits back down
She pulls out his satchel and he stares at it
He places a hand on the satchel and moves for her to put it down
They set free their lanterns and they join the swirling bunch in the sky. Flynn gazes at Rapunzel, seeing the happiness on her face, then looks toward the satchel, thinking to himself. When the festival dies down, they dock the boat on the edge of the lake and Flynn gets out
He grabs the satchel and she looks back and forth between it and him
Backing away slowly
He turns to leave and Pascal climbs onto her shoulder
They both sadly watch him go. From Sora's place at the dock, they watch the lights in the sky
They sense a disturbance from behind as Reaper Nobodies appear on the wharf. They get up and turn around, irked
They summon their weapons
They take care of the Nobodies plaguing the wharf as Rapunzel waits by the shore with Pascal. Out of the fog over the water emerges a small sailboat
From shore, she sees what looks like Flynn steering the sailboat with the stolen tiara in his hand
Unknown to Rapunzel, he is out cold and tied to the mast and helm
Marluxia appears behind her
He doesn't answer and she looks back at the boat, still drifting away
He motions with his hand and two Reaper Nobodies appear in front of Rapunzel. She runs away in fear and Marluxia smiles. She runs toward an opening between two large rocks, trying not to stumble when her braided hair catches on a fallen log. She pulls on it, trying to free it from the branch, when she hears a voice
Rapunzel walks back to the shoreline, where the Nobodies have dis- integrated and Mother Gothel stands with a tree branch in her arms, out of breath. She perks up at the sight of Rapunzel
She runs into Mother Gothel's arms
She touches Rapunzel's face
She hugs her tightly
Rapunzel stops and looks back at the boat on the lake. She slowly turns back to Mother Gothel, holding a green lantern in her hand. Rapunzel pauses as Mother Gothel sets the lantern down and opens her arms, beckoning her. Rapunzel's lip quivers and she starts to cry, running into her mother's embrace. Mother Gothel strokes her hair as she sobs. Sora, Donald and Goofy enter and see the two leaving
He cups his hands to his face
Marluxia appears in front of them
He summons his Keyblade
Marluxia extends a hand, blowing a pink wind toward Sora. He drops the Keyblade, his eyes drooping
They run towards him as his vision gets hazy, his ears muffled
Sora falls to the ground. Meanwhile, Rapunzel lay in bed, her hair flowing throughout the floor. She clutches a purple cloth while Pascal looks on. She stares up at her ceiling where many of her paintings are. Her eyes grow wider and she holds up the cloth where a golden sun is stitched into the fabric. Rapunzel looks back and forth from the cloth to the ceiling. She sits up to get a closer look, her eyes widening, and she gasps as she sees the exact same symbol etched into the paintings on the wall. Over and over and over again. They shine down at her, now impossible to miss. She sees it in her eye, the symbol of the royal family. Her mind flies to the mural in the city plaza with the baby with the golden hair. She imagines placing the tiara on her head, her crown as the lost princess of Corona. This realization hits her like a cannonball and she falls into the vanity in her room, knocking over the stool. The loud thud alerts Mother Gothel, who begins ascending the stairs. Rapunzel tries to catch her breath as Mother Gothel approaches her room. Rapunzel pulls apart the curtains to the stairway
She glares at Mother Gothel, whose eyes grow wide
She walks closer
She smiles, chuckling it off. She opens her arms only for Rapunzel to push her away
Mother Gothel's eyes narrow
Rapunzel pushes past her and rushes down the stairs
She goes after Rapunzel
Mother Gothel smirks evilly
Mother Gothel slithers around Rapunzel
She goes to pat Rapunzel on the head, but Rapunzel grabs her hand
Mother Gothel struggles in Rapunzel's grip
Mother Gothel tugs against Rapunzel, the effort causing her to step back into the full-length mirror behind her, shattering it into pieces on the rug. Her breath comes quick and she looks back at Rapunzel, who walks away from her. Mother Gothel seeths with a dark aura
Meanwhile, a recently escaped Flynn dashes on Maximus over the bridge away from the city. The morning sun brightens the sky as he rides toward the forest, encountering Donald and Goofy hovering over a still-sleeping Sora
They slide just short of them
Maximus licks Sora's face with his long tongue, rousing him from his sleep. Sora opens his eyes seeing Flynn and Maximus looking down at him. Donald and Goofy peek into view
Sora sits up
Maximus smiles haughtily. Sora stands and holds his head
The events come back to him
Donald and Goofy nod
They trot forward
He smiles down at Sora and extends a hand
Sora gives a small laugh
Flynn pulls Sora up onto the horse with a proud cackle. Donald jumps up onto Sora's shoulders and Goofy tags along on Maximus. Suddenly, they lose height
Maximus's legs buckle, struggling to hold them up, but his face changes to one of determination. He lets out a whinny and stands straight up
Maximus rears back and charges forward. They race through the forest in the direction of the tower, when they are intercepted by a group of Nobodies
Sora, Donald and Goofy nod to each other and jump off Maximus, summoning their weapons
He takes off with Maximus, leaving the Nobodies to them. As they follow along through the forest, their path is filled with Heartless. They defeat each wave in turn. By the time they arrive, Flynn has climbed up and entered the tower
He looks up, seeing Rapunzel chained and gagged. Her eyes widen as Mother Gothel sneaks behind him, striking a hidden dagger into his side. Rapunzel struggles to get free, crying out as Flynn falls over onto the floor. Mother Gothel looks down at him, squirming in pain on the stone floor. She tugs on Rapunzel's chains trying to lead her deeper into the tower, the girl desperate to get free
Rapunzel, pulling back, loses her balance and falls over, the gag slipping from her mouth
Mother Gothel raises an eyebrow
Flynn attempts to crawl on the floor but the pain is too great. Pascal looks on helplessly
Mother Gothel releases Rapunzel and shackles Flynn
Rapunzel rushes to Flynn's side
She brushes the hair out of his eyes and he clutches his side, struggling to sit up against the wall. She checks at his wound, obviously bleeding
She gathers her hair into her arms
She places the hair over his wound
They stare into each other's eyes
She touches his face
He gives the very smallest of smiles
He begins to stroke her hair, his face moving closer to hers, and with a swift motion cuts off her hair with a shard of the broken mirror. His hand falls to the floor, dropping the glass, as her hair turns brown, its healing ability lost. She looks down at him in shock
Absolute terror erupts from Mother Gothel's face
From the strand in Rapunzel's hands, the once golden locks of hair turn a deep brown. Mother Gothel tries to gather them up in her arms before the magic is lost
Unable to stop the transformation, she grabs her hand, watching it become wrinkled and withered
The aging spreads across her body like a weed, her skin turning pale and her hair a pallid gray. She screams out in sudden shrieks, her body moving feebly, as she covers her decrepit face with her hood. She writhes about the room, crossing closer to the window, where Pascal pulls on the long bunch of hair, causing her to spill out of the tower. She screams as she falls, aging out of existence, the shroud flying downward through the air as Sora, Donald and Goofy reach the base of the tower. Marluxia watches from the hill
He motions with his arm, suspending the cloak in midair surrounded by petals of pink. An orb of darkness bursts forth and branch-like limbs erupt from within, followed by a tail. Another set of limbs, and the creature crashes to the ground, the darkness pulling back, revealing a large tree-like Heartless, the Grim Guardianess. It growls down at Sora, Donald and Goofy, who summon their weapons
The Grim Guardianess flies toward them, its tail moving like a serpent, as its large mane of leaves crashes to the ground, sending pollen everywhere. Donald and Goofy are sent into a sneezing fit as thorns surround Sora. He struggles to get free of the thorns' grip before the Heartless slithers around the tower, spiraling to the top. Sora breaks free from the thorny tether as cherries fall from the sky. Sora, Donald and Goofy race across the hill avoiding the cages of vines that block their way, as the cherry bombs explode on impact with the ground. Dodging the torrent of bombs, Sora reaches the tower and runs up its stone exterior. The Heartless is soon no match for Sora and his Keyblade and is knocked from the tower. Inside, Rapunzel clutches Flynn
Sora, Donald and Goofy ascend the tower, seeing Rapunzel over Flynn's body. She grabs his arm and places it against her hair
Flynn opens his eyes
He touches her face
She holds his hand
The tears well up in her eyes
Flynn blinks once more and his eyes close, his body falling limp. The trio look on sadly as she moves her hand toward his face
She moves her hand over his heart and leans in closer, her face nearly touching his, her song nearly a whisper
She sobs, a tear falling onto the rogue's skin. It settles there, glowing into the shape of a flower. A light bursts forth from Flynn's wound, wresting Rapunzel from her sorrow. Sora, Donald and Goofy stare open-mouthed at this sight. The healing magic swirls into the air like strands of hair, wisping around Rapunzel, her eyes wide. A six-pointed flower magically blooms from the wound, before the light disappears inside of him. She moves closer to his face, brushing the hair out of her eyes as Flynn slowly takes a breath and opens his eyes
She gasps
He smiles and Rapunzel is overcome by joy
She throws her arms around him and he leans on his side to embrace her. Sora, Donald and Goofy smile with glee and Sora throws his arms around the other two, grinning from ear to ear and Flynn tightens his hold on Rapunzel. Later, they all stand at the base of the tower, the warm sunlight bathing over them
She giggles
Sora brushes a knuckle across his nose
Sora crosses his arms
Maximus and Flynn exchange glances
Maximus whinnies with laughter
Rapunzel takes Flynn's hand and they stare into each other's eyes
Rapunzel giggles
Sora chuckles
Maximus glares at Eugene, an inch from his face, and Eugene stops, unsure of what to anticipate. Pascal crawls onto Rapunzel's shoulder with a determined look and jumps over to Eugene's, sending his long sticky tongue into his ear. Eugene reels back and clutches his ear, Pascal jumping off with a squeal of glee
Rapunzel and the rest burst out laughing. Maximus smiles at Eugene, waggling his eyebrows as Pascal chills on Eugene's head. Soon after, the trio leaves the Kingdom of Corona. Meanwhile, Maleficent and Pete look over the sun-lit valley
She turns away from him
She opens a corridor of darkness before her
She enters the portal and Pete gives a muffled whimper before following her. Meanwhile inside the castle at Radiant Garden, Riku and King Mickey meet with Ienzo and Aeleus
Aeleus says nothing, simply shaking his head
He motions to the computer beside him
Riku realizes something
Ienzo and Aeleus exchange glances
Riku nods. In the Badlands on the outskirts of the Keyblade Graveyard, two figures stand atop thirteen pillars of earth. Both in black cloaks, the man with blue hair speaks first
The hooded man laughs
The man takes off his hood, revealing the yellow eyes and ashy blond hair of...
Sora, Donald and Goofy return to Le Grand Bistrot in Twilight Town to bring ingredients they've found to Little Chef. Scrooge walks into the kitchen where Little Chef is perched on Sora's head
He takes out a present
He offers the present to Sora, who takes it and laughs
He lifts a finger to the rat, who high-fives it confidently. Later, Sora, Donald and Goofy sail the Gummi Ship to a world of doors and monsters. The stars twinkle in the night sky as they walk towards a large factory building taking in the sights. Sora stops, turning around... There's something different about them. As the three finally get a glimpse of one another, they jump back in fright, summoning their weapons. Sora holds his Keyblade tightly, facing the other two. He takes a moment to distinguish the features of the other two
Sora now sports gray striped fur all over his body, a brand new tail, claws and spiky ears. Donald walks forward, lowering his wand. His feathers are now blue skin, his webbed feet now three-toed claws. His beak shows two fang-like protrusions as his tail ends in a spike, and two small purple wings stick out from his back. He peers at Goofy from his single large eye. Goofy, on the other hand, now has two different sized and colored eyes, teal spotted skin and huge claws. Sora looks down at himself
They walk closer to Sora, who scratches his face
Sora cowers, sparking a chuckle from Goofy
Sora shrugs and looks back up at the building. A large symbol of an M with an eye inside is stamped on the outside of the factory
Goofy crouches next to Donald to whisper in his ear
Donald and Goofy giggle as Sora reads the words above the entranceway. There's scaffolding set up over the left side of the message
They enter the factory doors and in the large lobby, they see two strange creatures. One very large and fuzzy and the other small and green. The larger one is holding a young toddler, causing the trio alarm
The girl pokes out from over the monsters arms. She's wearing an oversized pink shirt and tiny pigtails
The big monster turns around and sees Sora and company, the little girl squirming in his fluffy claws
The little green monster looks up at the big one through his single giant eyeball
Sulley caves and sets the girl on the floor as the green thing runs over to the trio, waving his little arms
He slams his fist into his hand and the trio give him disapproving looks
Sora points his Keyblade at him causing him to clam up
Sulley raises an eyebrow
He waves his arms frantically
The girl bounces in front of Sulley, who pets her on the head, making her giggle
Sora chuckles sheepishly as he and Donald put away their weapons. He walks up to the girl and crouches down
She trots over to him
She screams excitedly
Boo points at Donald, who jumps in surprise, staring at her with his cyclops eye
She continues pointing at Donald, waving her arm up and down. Sulley laughs
Sora smiles as she starts chasing Donald around the room
Boo jumps out from behind Sora as they laugh, but soon hides behind Sulley nervously
Behind Donald, a group of blue pointy creatures with red eyes appear. They rush to the danger, summoning their weapons
Several more appear, bringing with them a giant crab-like creature as well, bearing an unfamiliar symbol which catches Sora's attention
Sulley and Mike hide Boo behind the lobby desk
She nods and hides
They run to join the trio in the fray, quickly disposing of the troublesome creatures. Sulley gives Mike a high-five
Boo peeks out from her hiding place
Sulley shuffles over to Boo as Sora and company keep vigilant
Sulley returns, holding Boo
Sulley and Mike exchange glances and Mike shrugs
He looks over at Mike and Sulley and stamps his foot
Sulley nods
Sora and Donald nod to each other
Donald and Goofy jump at Sora, covering his mouth
They let go of Sora, who tries to rectify the suddenly awkward situation
Donald and Goofy nod in agreement
Mike scratches his bald green head
Boo rubs Sulley's fur and nods. Mike turns to face Sulley
Mike nods
Boo reaches for the floor and Sulley lets her down
Sora extends a hand
Mike shakes his hand
Boo starts running past the lobby and Sulley and Mike join her, playfully roaring. Donald crosses his arms
The two monsters catch Boo and Sulley bounces her in the air. The companion enter the headquarters of Monsters, Inc. and head to the Laugh Floor
They stop as Boo points ahead
Sora laughs bashfully
They hear commotion inside the Laugh Floor as Unversed appear inside, causing havoc with the door system. Several doors open and the Unversed enter, causing screams from the unaware inhabitants
They summon their weapons as Mike and Sulley stand agape at the sight on the Laugh Floor
Mike points at a white door with pink trim adorned with purple flowers making its way out of the room on the mechanical system
Sulley runs into the room and Mike notices Boo's wandered off
He points to their left and Sulley snatches up the girl, hiding her underneath a workstation
Sulley joins the others as an Unversed appears nearby. Boo cowers under the desk
Sulley and Mike ready their battle stances and help Sora defeat the Unversed. After the battle, Mike rushes over to three of the empty door stations, swiping a card at each terminal. He smiles as three doors come sliding into the room on the rail system. They stop above each station where mechanical arms extended from the floor, grabbing the doors and pulling them from the rail. They contract back into the floor and the machines lock the doors in place
Sora jumps onto the station with the green door
Mike presses a button on the terminal and the door lifts back up into the air. At first nervous, Sora laughs at the ride up as Donald and Goofy jump onto the red door station. Sulley, holding Boo, takes hold of the yellow door, Mike grabbing Sulley's tail just as the door lifts off the ground. Boo chuckles once the doors latch onto the rail system
Boo reaches toward the floor as Mike climbs up Sulley's back. An invisible figure skulks around the Laugh Floor as the doors begin sliding towards the Door Vault
The unseen figure sheds his invisible skin, revealing a long, thin monster, covered in purple scales. He watches as the doors leave the room. The rail systems takes the group through a long tunnel into a gigantic vault where thousands of doors hang on rails. Sora, Donald and Goofy gasp in awe of the enormous sight. Sora perks up at the appearance of...
Sulley bares his fangs
Sora leaps atop the sliding door and readies his Keyblade, sending bolts of energy as they speed by the Heartless. Two Gold Beat Heartless appear, spinning their electric chains and striking the railway. Bolts of lightning pulse on the rail, forcing Sora to duck for cover behind the wooden door. Once the coast is clear, he returns to the rail and finishes off the rest of the Heartless that appear before they reach the upper levels of the Door Vault. Sora leaps off the rail and the others leave the door behind. Mike runs excitedly toward a beige door, Sora trailing behind, and opens it, finding only the wall behind it
He slams it shut as numerous Heartless appear behind them
Sora summons his Keyblade again
Mike directs his huge eye towards Sora and they run in the direction of the Heartless
The group battles the Heartless that appear as Sulley shields Boo from them
Soldier Heartless surround Sulley, cornering them near a pile of doors. Sora plows through them as the others defeat the Vermilion Sambas that also appear. The companions group together, each letting out a goofy shriek to make Boo laugh, when Sora gets an idea. He grabs onto the sufficiently round Mike Wazowski
Sora spins around, sending Mike tumbling toward the Heartless like a bowling ball. The Heartless disappear as he comes to a rolling stop, clutching his head as his eye wobbles in its socket
Boo claps, giggling joyfully. The red light above the door lights up and Sulley opens it, revealing the pathway inside
Sulley enters, followed by Boo and the others. Sora closes it behind him and they exit through a green door on the other side of the upper levels. Sora closes it after they enter and the group looks up at the multitude of sliding doors on the rail system
They ride the rails once again, defeating the impeding Heartless
Sora leaps off the railway attempting to grab on but misses the door at the last second
He lands on another rail, eventually sliding down to the lower levels of the vault, where more Heartless are waiting for them. They take them out and enter a yellow door, coming out onto the other side of a large wall of doors inside the factory
The continue through the Factory and Sulley gasps
He runs ahead with Boo in his arms and opens the door, quickly heading inside. Goofy closes it behind them and the slithering figure of the purple monster appears on the outside of the door, dropping his camouflage. He lifts his head, checking that the coast is clear, and silently follows them into the now solid white door. The group bursts out the other end only to find themselves still in the Factory
They turn back to the door, where two eyes and a mouth appear
The color-changing monster reveals himself
Mike and Sulley glare at him
Randall waves him off
Mike clenches his teeth, growling
Randall gets in Mike's face, flashing his wide smug grin
Mike laughs in his face, punching him lightly in the side, causing Randall to drop the grin
He touches his chin with a sticky toe
He walks around spouting off and they eye him suspiciously
Randall whirls around
Sora summons his Keyblade and Randall crosses his second pair of forelegs
He smiles through narrow eyes
He turns around, waving them away, and turns invisible once again
They look around, but he's disappeared
They hear Randall's voice over the factory intercom
They agree and enter the Factory Basement
They defeat the obstructing Heartless through the factory
The party ascends a long set of stairs into another room with mechanical claws and a large conveyor belt. As Sora and company approach, one of the mechanical arms blasts them with a laser, but they dodge just in time. The laser blast creates a sizzling hole in the floor
The mechanical arm twists and turns erratically
Boo runs to Sulley's leg with a whimper and the big blue kitty picks her up
Donald stamps his foot
As Mike and Sulley safely hide with Boo, Sora, Donald and Goofy traverse the conveyor belt, ducking under the machine parts for cover as the mechanical arms pace over the belt with steady laser beams, sending a piercing ringing into their ears
They safely get to the stairs and reach the machine. Sora strikes it with the Keyblade, sending sparks flying from the various panels, and the mechanical arms power down. Sulley and Mike peek out from their hiding spot
They run across the conveyor belt, a smile of success on Mike's face, and catch up to Sora and the others. Sulley puts Boo down as the shutter to the Ground Floor slides open
In the next room, Unversed appear in droves
They take out several of the Turtletoads
The defeat the remaining Flowersnakes and continue through the Factory, finding a yellow elevator at the end of the hall
He looks around, his great iris bouncing around his face in all directions
He sees a nearby room labeled 'Painting Booth' and smiles
Mike runs toward the door and chuckles, waving Sulley towards him with a sly look. Sulley approaches and bends down at Mike's command. Mike whispers his plan into Sulley's ear, and Sulley nods with artful approval
He grabs Mike by the top of his head and walks to the booth
Mike struggles to get away as the doors open
The doors close on him and the lights turn on in the booth. Sora and the others wait outside with Boo while the machine buzzes and whirrs. Soon a bell chimes and the doors open again. Out strides a miffed Mike covered in blue and pink paint followed by a similarly-painted Sulley. Sulley smirks, nudging Mike. Boo points at them and laughs along with the trio and the lights to the elevator flicker on
They enter the elevator and Sora presses the button on the panel. The doors close and they ride it up to the Second Floor
When the doors open on the next floor, Boo runs out ahead
The two run after her into a blue room with yellow water pipes. She peeks out from behind one and giggles
They walk towards her when a pipe above them bursts, showering them with water and washing the paint off their bodies
Sulley wiggles his body to dry off, splashing Mike with water
Sulley chuckles and Boo runs over
Behind her a group of Water Cores appear and Mike gives out a shriek
She runs to him and he picks her up
Sulley nods and they fall back behind Sora, Donald and Goofy
They take out the Heartless and continue through the hallways, finding a large yellow room. The shutter closes behind them and they are trapped with a horde of Unversed and electric-type Heartless, who send bolts of lightning through the metal grid surrounding the room
They destroy the Heartless and take down the electric grid, opening the door to the next area. They find another conveyor belt with more laser- powered mechanical arms. Sora jumps back to dodge one of the laser beams and Mike lets off a sigh
Sora smiles back at them
Sora, Donald and Goofy follow the conveyor belt doing their best not to get singed
As the conveyor continues into the next room, they jump off the side, following the arrow on the wall to another belt that leads in their direction
As they ascend the belt they struggle against the speed of its descent, forcing them to hide underneath various machine parts and destroy any obstructions with projectiles. After successfully making their way upstairs, Sora destroys the control panel in the next room, disabling the laser beams. With the room now clear, Sulley and Mike run to catch up with them as the shutter opens to the next area
They enter the control room and Sulley runs to a large shutter that is closed
Mike rushes over to a giant control panel
Sora runs over to the control panel, Donald following behind
Mike throws his hands up with anxiety
Mike runs over and Sora & Donald get out of his way. He presses a few buttons and then slams his fist on the control board
More buttons, but the result is the same
He summons his Keyblade to a shocked Mike, raising it over his head
He runs over holding Boo
Mike ponders
Boo giggles and Sulley places her atop his head. He starts to laugh, playfully running around the room, and she screams excitedly. Mike and Sora run after them, but soon take a spill. Sora knocks Mike into the air with the Keyblade, but loses his grip and falls over. Mike lands upright on his knees with a triumphant Yeehaw before the Keyblade falls on top of him, causing him to see stars. He holds his head while everyone laughs, causing the control panel to whirr to life. Boo whimpers as multiple Unversed appear in the room
Mike readies his fighting stance as the other three summon their weapons once again. They defeat the ones that appeared, but more surround Sulley as he guards Boo from her hiding spot. The group performs a scream strike on the creatures before Sora uses Mike as a bowling ball again. Soon, the battle is over and the control panel is surging with energy, but the doors still aren't open
Mike aims his fingerguns at Boo
He waves his hands, getting ready, then smacks himself in the face, sending his eyeball in various directions with each smack, mimicking a bouncing ball. It bounces faster and faster until he gives a final Tada!
Sulley looks down at Boo, but she makes no reaction. Mike sighs
Still no reaction. He clears his throat
Sora looks at Goofy
The trio react in alarm and Mike falls on all fours
He searches the floor while Sulley scratches his face
Mike crosses his arms a Sora walks over to Sulley
Boo mimics Mike's arm crossing
Boo roars
He scratches his head
He crouches to Boo's level and drops his head. After a moment of anticipation, he perks up his head with the goofiest smile, causing Boo to laugh
Sora repeats it and everyone makes a different silly face for Boo. The control panel goes wild and the shutter unlocks. Sulley chuckles
Mike crosses his arms in a huff. They start to walk toward the door when Randall slithers up behind them
Sora summons his Keyblade
Mike scowls as they stand ready for a fight
He snaps his finger, but nothing happens. He shifts his eyes and looks around
He turns away from them and snaps twice again, but again gets no response
He scuffles along the floor to a piece of machinery in the corner
He tries to pull on one of the metal spikes of the machine, but it doesn't budge
Randall groans
He kicks the machine and slithers away, seething
Sora moves to follow him, but Sulley pulls him back
He moves an arm to look down at Boo
He pets her and she giggles
He dispels his Keyblade
They walk to the shutter and it opens
As they enter the hallway, the door closes and a figure in a black hood enters through a corridor of darkness. The figure holds out a hand to the machine and oil pools out of it. Randall peeks out from around the corner as the oil builds on the edges of the machine, climbing up the sides and into every crevice. An Unversed symbol appears on its metal hood. The figure directs the wave of oil and machine in front of him and a large mouth bursts from the Unversed, causing Randall to grin. Upon reaching the Power Plant, they see that it has been set ablaze by Unversed
A helicopter flies overhead and they hear a voice over the radio
They make their way through the Power Plant and see the Unversed wreaking havoc as the helicopter flies in from above, lowering a rope
A four-armed monster in a bright yellow suit containing a large tank drops to the ground, followed by other CDA Agents with varying appendages. He approaches Sora and company
One of the agents behind him points to his left, giving a direction to the other, who is knocked off his feet by an explosion. A Spiked Turtletoad marches through from its direction, causing the agents to back away. The first agent takes out his radio
Sora runs ahead of him and summons his Keyblade
The agent moves to the side as the group begins battling the Unversed. After taking out the vicious Spiked Turtletoad, several Flame Core Heartless appear
They continue defeating Heartless and Unversed while also using Water spells on the surrounding fire. Once the enemies are taken out, the group helps fight the fires with the giant water hoses brought by the CDA. Soon, the threat is neutralized
The agent salutes him
The group follow the hallways through the Power Plant, reaching another outside area where the helicopter flies past them
More of the plant is on fire. Heartless appear to block their way to the Tank Yard, where the agents are fighting the fire. The helicopter flies over the Tank Yard, shining down its searchlight
They fight the Heartless and extinguish the fires
A boom catches their attention as a large blue tank starts crackling with electricity. Sulley grabs Boo and the group runs as quick as they can away from the tank. It explodes, knocking them all off their feet. Mike's breaths come fast and quick as the pipes above burst into flames and explode likewise. Another blow to their right causes another explosion, dislodging a gigantic pipe above them from its rivets. They run as it starts to fall to the ground, sending up a cloud of dust. The passageway they were about to use is now filled with broken piping
Goofy whimpers
Boo hops down from his hand
Boo runs toward something as Sulley thinks. The other watch her as she returns
At their confusion, she points ahead at the fallen pipe and giggles
He makes a fist
He pats her on the head and she giggles again
He starts walking
Mike, walking beside him, blocks his way
Sulley picks him up by the head with one hand and sets him down to his left
They climb up the busted pipe and into the cooling tank, defeating the Unversed that appear inside it. Sulley rushes to a set of doors
Boo follows behind
He releases the door from its hinges and sets it aside, pointing
Boo giggles and they run inside. Mike looks at his surroundings
Mike puts his hands on his hips
He gives his friend a sly smile
They traverse the Vault Passage and enter another hallway. The floor is covered in a black substance
They follow the trail of sludge into the Door Vault
They hear a snicker as a certain purple fiend slithers in
Randall scoffs
He walks aside, pointing out the very same pile of junk behind him. Its existence there startles them, but Mike quickly waves it off and moves closer. The Unversed symbol appears on its hood, which scares Boo, who hides behind Sulley
Sulley picks up Boo and leads her to safety as Sora, Donald and Goofy run up to Mike
Randall cackles from a high ledge, distracting Mike from the ooze seeping out behind his back. He turns around to see an enormous Lump of Horror rising up from the machine. Mike shivers and backs away, Sora and company running to his rescue
Mike lands on his butt as the blobby creature opens its mouth wide, scream containers bursting from the goo. Sulley grabs Mike by the head and lifts him up
Mike smiles, then smacks his own face, Sulley letting him down to the floor
He looks down at Mike and Sulley
The Lump of Horror plants itself into the floor, spreading itself across swipes of ooze where Tar Hands burst from the ground, tossing fireballs at the party. They take out the Tar Hands and dodge out of the way as the great lump barrels towards them. It sinks into the floor for a moment before exploding in a swell of oil, sending it all across the floor and up the walls. The main body of the Unversed raises itself up in the center of the room, sprouting wings on its jack-o-lantern face, as a hundred Tar Hands emerge from the walls and floor. The hands attempt to claw at them but are quickly subdued. As Sora approaches the Lump of Horror, it strikes with a gust of wind from its great wings, sending him back into the Tar Hands clutches. As the group destroy the hands, the Unversed absorbs the oil back into its body and emits steam from the canisters of scream stuck inside it, also sending a cluster of fireballs in their direction. Knocking the fireballs back at it causes the Lump of Horror to lose control of its form, dripping oil everywhere. It falls to the floor in a silent puddle, leaving a pile of machinery and scream canisters, which Randall scuttles over to, whimpering
Randall begins kicking the debris as Mike looks over to a door which was previously restored from wood chips. He waves for Sulley's attention and quickly does a series of charades to get his point across without speaking. Door. Randall. Pointing. Strangle? Obviously, Sulley doesn't understand. Mike grunts in frustration, then makes a quiet roar
He gives Mike a double thumbs-up and Mike rolls his eyes in relief, as Sulley runs forward
Goofy grabs Donald to silence him as Randall turns toward Sulley in surprise. Sulley bellows loudly in Randall's face. Not long after, they show Randall the door. Mike turns the knob and opens it
Randall grits his teeth and Boo roars at him from Sulley's arms
He looks down at Boo, smiling, and she giggles. Randall scowls back at them
He points with two of his arms and Mike puts a hand on his shoulder
Mike smiles haughtily and Randall growls in anger, before accepting defeat. He pushes Mike away and walks toward the door
Randall seethes
Mike follows him to the door and Randall steps inside. Mike overhears
Mike grins widely as they start beating up Randall from beyond the door
Mike recoils with a grimace
Randall screams and Mike chuckles
He closes the door with a smile and Sulley walks up to the door
He reaches an arm back to smash the door
Sora walks forward and summons the Keyblade, aiming it at the door. A Keyhole appears on the door and the Keyblade glows, sending a beam toward the Keyhole. A bright light shines and they hear a clicking sound as the Keyhole disappears. A warm glow envelops the locked door and it rises into the air, vanishing
Sora gives a sheepish chuckle. Later, they finally find Boo's door and jump up to it, Mike and Sulley hanging from the rails
The rail buckles and begins to slide the door along, with Sora, Donald and Goofy following on their own red door. They each give their own excited shouts
The doors arrive at the Laugh Floor, and the group jump off as they lock in their terminals. A hooded figure steps toward them, sending Sora on the defensive
The figure takes off his hood, revealing a dark reflective helmet
He gasps
Goofy and Donald act in surprise
Vanitas walks through one of the workstations
He picks up one of the scream canisters
He holds the canister up
He juggles the canister in the air
Sulley holds Mike back from rushing at Vanitas, but Mike struggles against the grip on his head
He drops the canister. It clangs to the ground before screaming off into the air
Sulley dodges away, taking Mike and Boo with him. They watch as the canister flies around the expansive room, bouncing off the walls until it runs out of scream and crashes to the floor. Mike and Sulley scowl as it rolls to Sora's feet
Sora turns around and gasps as Vanitas holds his Keyblade just inches from him. A voice bursts from Sora's chest
Sora is taken aback at his own outburst
He creeps closer to Sora, holding out his hand
Sora knocks his hand away
Mike, Sulley and Boo sneak carefully through the workstations out of sight of Vanitas
A dark mist swirls around them
Vanitas swings his Keyblade, releasing a dark wind and Sora feels a tug on his heart. He catches himself upon falling to the floor as Donald and Goofy shield him from the front
Goofy struggles, holding back the dark wind with his shield
The wind is blasted away
With a wave of his arm, he swipes Donald and Goofy away in a streak of darkness. With Sora left defenseless, they gasp
Vanitas walks closer as Sora stands and summons his Keyblade. Vanitas knocks it away in seconds with his own and aims it at Sora's chest. The image of Ventus is superimposed over Sora
Vanitas releases another dark wind just as Sulley appears behind him
He roars ferociously and Boo covers her eyes, while Mike covers her ears. Vanitas drops his Keyblade as Sulley grabs and lifts him up. He struggles against Sulley's firm grip
Another set of doors slide into the room, brought by Mike
Sulley runs over, tossing Vanitas inside the door
Mike slams the door and Sulley grabs it as Mike runs to the next terminal and opens a second door. Sulley tosses the door inside the second door, and the process repeats with a third, and then a fourth door. Finally, the fourth door is shredded into sawdust with glee. Sulley and Mike high-five and Boo dances
The two then high-five Boo
Boo giggles and Sora walks over to her
The group laughs at Sora and Donald's expense
Mike turns, seeing Donald behind him
She runs up to Mike and hugs him. Surprised, he smiles and pets her on the head
He waves as Sulley leads her to her flowery door
They reveal a trio of silly faces from under their hands
Boo laughs and waves goodbye. Later, the trio returns to the lobby with Mike and Sulley
Mike nods
Sora chuckles
He extends a hand and Sora takes it
Donald shakes Mike's hand while Sulley and Goofy nod
They back off to the entrance, waving
Sora chuckles and shrugs at Donald and Goofy
The group returns to the gummi ship. Sora taps his foot and a finger impatiently to the concern of Donald and Goofy. Sora stands up on his chair, turning back to them
Donald and Goofy exchange worried expressions and Jiminy jumps onto Sora's shoulder
Sora's realization garners a sigh and he takes out his gummiphone
He looks back at them sadly, and slumps, defeated, back into his chair, letting out an angsty shout and staring at the ceiling. Suddenly, his gummiphone begins to ring
He answers the phone and neither Riku nor the King appear
They sigh
Ienzo pauses at this unorthodox response
Jiminy hops up again to see the screen
Sora thinks and Jiminy hops down
The call ends
Sora puts the phone away
They think for a second
They begin to laugh
The gummi ship sails on. Meanwhile, on the edge of a dark beach, a young woman in blue sits with a cloaked man, his blonde beard just visible beneath his hood
She crosses her arms over her legs, staring out at the light far over the water
She nods
Some time later, Aqua senses an approaching presence
Ansem the Wise follows suit, seeing the arrival of his usurper, Ansem, Seeker of Darkness
They stand to face him, ready for conflict
Ansem the Wise doffs his hood, glaring at him through orange eyes
Ansem walks nearer to them
He reaches for Ansem the Wise, but Aqua knocks his hand away, standing between the two of them
Ansem looks Aqua over and raises his eyebrow
He scoffs
Ansem crosses his arms with a smile, and the earth shakes as a black creature with glowing yellow eyes emerges from the ground behind him. The Dark Figure reaches back with its muscular arms and punches Aqua away. She lands on her feet on the sand
She runs forward with a leaping kick to the Dark Figure's bandaged face. She jumps off its arm, but it grabs her by the leg before she can get away. It lifts her up to look her in the eyes as she struggles. Ansem the Wise runs up, waving his arms
Ansem chuckles evilly
Aqua breaks free, spinning downward to land a kick on Ansem, but he blocks with his arm. She leaps off the arm and lands back near the water
Energy begins to swirl between the Dark Figure's hands as a massive orb of darkness emerges. At the apex, the orb bursts from the Figure's chest, striking Aqua at high speed, sending her screaming into the murky waters. Ansem the Wise rushes to the water and falls to his knees helplessly. Aqua sinks deep into the water, darkness spreading over her heart
The darkness envelops her body as she drifts deeper into the abyss. Meanwhile on the Gummi Ship, Sora's phone rings. Sora answers it, seeing Dale on the screen
He yells off-screen
No response
Chip hops onto the screen
Chip crosses his arms while Dale sighs
Dale waves and the call ends
They pause for a moment to think
The Gummi Ship takes off toward Twilight Town. They enter the Tram Common, where Merlin is sipping tea at Le Grand Bistrot, his large carpet bag at his feet
He chuckles
The wizard raises a finger
He taps his wand against the carpet bag and it opens. Out floats a familiar children's book labeled Winnie the Pooh
Sora grabs onto the book
They inspect the cover. The titular bear sitting alone on a log beneath the stars
Sora contemplates before handing Donald the book
Sora aims his Keyblade at the book
The blade glows and with a flash, Sora becomes particles of light that fly into the storybook. In the familiar landscape of Rabbit's Howse, Winnie the Pooh sits near the front door with his best friend Piglet, a paw to his temple
Piglet looks over as Sora enters
Pooh giggles and stands up
Rabbit walks up
Rabbit crosses his arms and glares at Piglet
Sora chuckles
Sora looks over and sees a large lavender elephant walking towards them, with Roo aboard its back
Roo leaps over his head and slides down his trunk
Sora approaches and leans down
The Heffalump stomps the ground happily and Gopher bursts from the soil
Gopher turns toward Piglet
He turns to look behind Sora
A bounce. Then another bounce. Then another, and another, until...
Sora turns around and gets tackled by the one and only Tigger
Sora smiles wide
He bounces on his striped tail and Roo follows
Roo starts laughing
Lumpy and Roo bounce around in circles as Piglet and Gopher feel the effects on the ground
He addresses the bouncing buddies
They ignore Rabbit and keep bouncing
Rabbit walks toward them and they stop to think
He shakes his head, whirling around
Sora walks over
Together, they help Rabbit pick vegetables. A delighted Rabbit holds a bounty of bright orange carrots in his arms
Rabbit puts down the carrots
Tigger's back at it
Piglet giggles
He starts to leave
Sora sighs softly
Sora helps the group pick fruit in the orchard. Rabbit surveys the giant pile of colorful fruit
Roo giggles
Gopher descends into his hole
Sora bends down and Rabbit whispers in his ear
Sora helps Rabbit pick flowers, unearthing the stash of honey he keeps there. Afterward, Rabbit presents Pooh with a hunny pot
Pooh sits right then and there for a snack
They look over just as a breeze wafts along, sending various flower petals into the air. Tigger bounces up to touch them
They marvel at the sight
Sora squats to Pooh's level
Pooh points to his chest
Sora snaps out of his daze
He points to Pooh's heart and the bear smiles happily
They laugh cheerfully, watching the petals dance through the air. The storybook closes and Sora has joined Winnie the Pooh on the log, now under a bright blue sky. Sora appears back in Twilight Town
Sora peers downward sadly
He turns to the wizard
He shows Sora the changed book cover, bringing a smile to his face
Sora, Donald and Goofy leave Twilight Town and sail the Gummi Ship to a kingdom covered in snow and ice. Upon their arrival, they are attacked by a group of Soldier Heartless. Goofy knocks one back with his shield and Donald sends out a Fire spell, destroying two of them. Sora takes out the remaining one with his Keyblade. He feels the wind blow through his hooded shirt, garnering a shiver
He tucks his arms in, freezing and Donald gives him a stern look
He rubs his shoulders and looks over to his right at the fjord...
...which is slowly freezing over
They run forward to the edge of the fjord, watching the ice creep over the rippling water
Something catches his attention. A young woman with a blue dress and purple cape runs along the top of the water, freezing the surface in her wake. The expression on her face is one of desperation. They react with a start once the ice reaches the shore
Donald and Goofy nod and they run toward the base of the North Mountain. They near a cliffside and see snow fall from it, soon followed by a horde of reindeer-like Winterhorn Heartless. They take out the Heartless and continue up the mountain. They reach the end of the Treescape with a sheer cliff
They continue climbing the mountain, reaching an open spot in the Gorge where you can see over the kingdom
They finally catch up to the young woman, who walks slowly across the snow
She gasps, turning around quickly, fear emblazoned on her face
He looks over at Donald, who gives him a forbidding look
Donald approves of this response
He looks to Donald and Goofy for an answer. They both nod
Sora laughs nervously and Goofy waves
They appear surprised
They stand at attention
She turns away from them and begins walking
She grapples with the anguish on her face
At a certain distance, she stops
Frustrated, Elsa whirls around, her hand glowing as a multitude of spikes emerge from the ground between them. Terror returns to her face at this outburst, her second of this unfortunate night
Heartless appear behind her and she gasps
She backs away from them as Sora rushes forward with his Keyblade
She runs safely back as they take on the horde of snow-faring Heartless. As Sora deals the final blow to the Rock Troll, Elsa approaches them
A Winterhorn Heartless drops down from above and leaps at the group
Elsa holds up her hands, shooting a beam of ice at the Heartless, taking it out
She holds her one bare hand with her blue-gloved hand
She looks down at her hand
She walks away from them
He tries to follow her but a large ice wall appears to block him. Elsa looks back at the wall and then breaks into a run
Sora places his hands against the wall of ice
They turn around to see a woman in a black coat with blonde hair and yellow eyes
She raises an eyebrow in annoyance
He looks her over and turns to Donald
They turn their attention back to Larxene
She holds out her hand, electricity crackling as a set of ice crystals float around her fingers. She sends out a bolt of lightning at the ice wall, which shatters. She raises her arm. The remnants of the ice wall, glowing blue from the lightning coursing through it, start to rise into the air, spinning into a vortex of frozen electricity. The whirlwind stops, and boulders of ice shoot into the ground around the trio
He runs towards her, but is stopped by a final boulder on the pile of frozen blocks. Inside, they inspect their surroundings
They begin to explore the Labyrinth of Ice
They traverse the unsettling landscape, fighting both Heartless and Nobodies alike, discovering a room with a peculiar pillar
Sora spins around the pillar and the room starts to shift
The room spins, opening a passageway
They reach the Lower Tier of the labyrinth and find another room with pillars
Sora rotates the pillars, causing the shelf above to slide over, revealing a new passageway leading to a vertical shaft
Sora ascends the shaft and reaches the other side of the Middle Tier. They continue through the Labyrinth of Ice eliminating Heartless and Nobodies and rotating pillars to unbar the way. The final pillar unlocks an elevator that takes them to the Upper Tier, revealing the shape of the maze to be a snowflake
They reach the center of the maze, where a portal sits in waiting
They rush through the portal back out to the Gorge and look around for Elsa
He points further up the mountain
They reach another cliffside
They ascend to the Mountain Ridge, where a strong icy wind pelts them with snow
They stop, hearing a voice
They start running up the mountain
Atop the mountain, Elsa releases her glove
She conjures snowflakes from her fingers
With a spiral of wind, she creates a snowman
She sends up sparks of magical ice that fall down like rain at her command
She grabs the clasp on her cape...
...and lets it fly. It passes over the three of them
Sora runs ahead, and they follow
She looks out over the mountain
She started running up the mountain, elated
She pushes her hands forward, creating a jagged set of stairs
She takes one step on the stairs, turning the jagged ice crystals into a surface smooth as glass
She runs up the staircase, extending it as she goes, just as Sora and company catch up
She reaches the top with a flurry of magic
She rushes forward and slams her shoe into the ground, creating a large snowflake-shaped platform
The dendrites grow freely, creating a continuously intricate snowflake
She bites her lip, raising her arms, lifting the platform with pillars of ice, creating large towers against the mountainside. Sora, Donald and Goofy stare in amazement
She adds decoration to the walls and floor
The magic traces up the walls, adding detail to the archways, reaching up to form a ceiling
A chandelier bursts from the ceiling, growing down like a multi-pointed stalactite
She removes her crown and tosses it away
She unties her hair, letting her long braid trail down over her shoulder
Magic trails along her dress
Her dress changes to a sparkling gown of light blue with a long train
Her reflection shining on the smooth floor, she walks forward confidently
She walks out onto the balcony as the sun rises into a pink sky, glittering every tiny facet of her gown
She raises her arms, finally free
She spins around, whipping the train in front of her as the doors slam behind. Sora, Donald and Goofy stand at the base of her Ice Palace
They walk closer and a corridor of darkness appears, revealing Larxene's smirking face
The react defensively, but quickly Sora relaxes
She looks up at the palace
She smiles snidely
She combines ice and lightning again to create a blasting wind. Electricity crackles along the ground as they struggle against it
Bolts of lightning burst from her fingertips, forcing the three of them to lose their grip on the snow and fly off down the mountain. Recovering from the fall, Sora gets to his knees seeing Donald and Goofy buried in the snow
Donald stands on his feet, pulling against the heavy pile of snow covering his head. He breaks out of the snow, bouncing back from an overabundance of force, a light dusting of snow on his hat and bill. He shakes himself off, his eyes wobbling from dizziness
Goofy signals with his arms from beneath the snow
They fish Goofy out of the ground
He wags a finger at Sora
They start to walk, when Goofy's ear perks up
They stop and listen
An enormous avalanche tumbles down the mountain toward them, encasing tree and rock alike
Goofy summons his shield
Donald and Sora jump aboard the shield and Goofy gets it going, just as the snow reaches them
Goofy jumps on and they start careening down the mountain. From within the avalanche, three Frost Serpent Heartless appear. Their wings spin effortlessly through the snow as they leer their prey with glowing yellow eyes
One of the Frost Serpents swims through the snow after them as another takes off into the air
The flying Heartless aims an ice beam at them, but they jump to dodge the attack
Soon all three Frost Serpents fly in the air, shooting identical beams
The blasting wind brings a chill over Sora as they eventually careen over the mountain edge, spilling from the shield. Further down, the shield lands on the snow and they lose their pursuers. Donald and Goofy land back on the shield, sledding down the mountain as Sora flips over in the air and joins them. Reaching the Snowfield, the three Frost Serpents burst from the ground as the shield comes to a stop
After a tricky battle against air and ice, Sora, Donald and Goofy emerge victorious
A shadow passes over them, catching their attention. They look skyward, seeing more Frost Serpents fly into the snow of the mountain, causing a second avalanche. The trio attempts to escape, but the snow overtakes them too quickly spilling them over the edge. Later, they hear a voice in their unconscious stupor
Sora feels a tug
Sora wakes up with a snowball stuck in his spiky hair. In his woozy state, he thinks he sees a talking, walking snowman. Well, less walking, more hopping. The snowman hops over to Sora, just inches from his face
He pulls the snowball from Sora's hair and reattaches it to his body with his twig-like arms. He waddles off between the trees
Sora stands up slowly, the snow falling from his jacket. He looks ahead, but sees no one
Donald and Goofy recover from the endeavor
Donald and Goofy exchange glances
They enter the Valley of Ice, surrounded by trees with large frozen droplets lining their branches. Soon, they see two people walking with a reindeer and a...
...snowman!
Sora laughs
Sora runs up to the snowman
He reaches out to touch the snowman, but he inches backwards. The commotion causes the other three strangers to turn around
The three walk over to them and the girl speaks up
Olaf giggles
She addresses the man as he gives her a skeptical look
The man sighs
He motions toward the reindeer who nods
She gasps
She looks into his eyes
Kristoff and Sven start to leave
Kristoff bends down to pick up the snowman
Olaf giggles as they leave. Anna and Sora sit on a nearby rock
Over a decade ago in Arendelle, Anna skips through the halls of the palace as Elsa enters her bedroom door. Anna tries to get to her but Elsa closes the door
Later that same year, Anna notices the snow falling outside the window and rushes to Elsa's closed door, knocking
Young Anna peers through the keyhole of Elsa's door, then sings into it
Young Anna sadly leaves
The flashback ends
She stops, sadly
He remembers the look on Elsa's face when she was fleeing across the fjord
He remembers Riku's sacrifice at the door to darkness and his journey after Sora woke from his year-long sleep
He smiles at her
Kristoff runs toward them
He holds up a stick
He bends it and it straightens back up
They start to search for Olaf
Sora finds an oversized snowball
Sora jumps aboard the snowball, riding along until it crashes into a rock and bursts open, revealing Olaf's head
Sora picks up Olaf's head
They continue searching for the rest of Olaf
They find a frozen waterfall
They climb the water fall and find an oddly-shaped snowball with a black rock in it
They keep looking
They return to the frozen pond in the center of the valley
The small set of Olaf's legs turn tail and run away on the ice. Sora dashes forward and grabs them, its feet wiggling in the air
They put Olaf together, but something is wrong
Olaf's head falls off the oddly-shaped snowball
Just past the waterfall, they find a hugely-oversized snowball with a large black rock embedded in it
They put Olaf together a second time, but something is definitely wrong
On the other side of the waterfall, they slide down the slippery hill and find a small nook, where they find a tiny snowball with a single button of coal
They return to the group and Anna puts Olaf back together
Olaf's body is correct, but strangely less colorful
He touches his face
Olaf gasps sadly and Kristoff eyes Sven, sighing. He leans down to him sternly
The reindeer smiles coyly and Kristoff opens his mouth, commanding. Sven obliges, revealing the carrot on his tongue. Kristoff grabs the carrot, pursing his lips, and shrugs at a disapproving Anna
Sven smirks
They return Olaf's nose
A group of Heartless appear over the pond
Olaf waves his arms frantically
Sora, Donald and Goofy summon their weapons
Kristoff leads her away from the battle. The three adventurers defeat the horde of Winterhorns, Flutterings, and Satyrs
They travel out of the Valley of Ice to the Frozen Wall, where an icy wind starts to pick up
Sora rides on a snowball and takes out a few Heartless
They continue up the mountain reaching the Mountain Ridge from the other side, where snowdrifts containing horizontal icicles stick out dangerously in their path
At Elsa's Ice Palace, Anna speaks to her sister, pleading for her to return to Arendelle
Sora, Donald and Goofy approach the base of the staircase leading to the palace, where Sven has stuck his tongue to the banister. The reindeer attempts to pull it away with not much luck
Inside the palace, a great wind swirls as Elsa's conflicting emotions get the better of her. Anna shields her eyes at the stinging snow, but stands unrelenting to help her sister
A giant burst of power erupts from the queen, striking Anna in the heart, causing her to lose her balance. Elsa whirls around, terrified at the sight of what she had just done. Outside, Sora feels a pain in his heart and winces, catching the attention of Donald and Goofy
He looks back up to the palace, and the others follow his gaze
The doors slam open and a giant snow monster appears in the doorway
The monster walks out with Olaf, Anna, Kristoff in his clutches
Anna beats against the monster's icy fingers
The monster tosses Anna and Kristoff, who take a bumpy slide down the stairs, past the trio
Olaf's head flies into the snow-covered rock behind Anna and Kristoff
Anna and Kristoff duck as Olaf's middle and legs fly in as well
She gathers a snowball in an attempt to toss it at Marshmallow, but Kristoff stops her
He grabs her
He lets go of her
She tosses the snowball less than calmly
It hits Marshmallow in the shoulder (barely a scratch and he roars at them, his eyes glowing and spikes protruding from his legs and arms)
He waves them off and they run, while Olaf's torso and legs do the same
His face falls off the rock and into the snow
Sora jumps in front
Marshmallow stomps over to them and roars in their faces, spraying icy breath, causing the three to run away. Olaf's body comes out from hiding and rejoins with his head
Marshmallow pursues Donald and Sora, who looks around
He spots him at a tree that's bent over from the heavy snow
Sora leads Marshmallow in the direction of the tree
Goofy rubs his hands together and grabs onto the tree, lifting it up just as Sora latches onto him. They pull back the snow-laden tree as Marshmallow approaches
They release the tree and it snaps back into Marshmallow's face, knocking him over. Sora and Goofy get up and high-five
Donald reaches them and summons his wand
Marshmallow gets up and Sora and Goofy join Donald
They take on the snow monster at the end of the ridge. He roars, hundreds of spikes emerging across his body, and tries to claw at the three of them. He corners them at the edge of the mountain and slams his fist into the ground
The outcropping shatters and they tumble down the cliff once again. At the bottom, they rest before getting back up again
Donald stands up
Sora stands
As they return to the Snowfield once again, they see an auburn-haired man carrying Elsa over his shoulder. He is tall and well dressed, a sword attached to his hip
Sora looks closer
Donald takes a careful look
A dark aura eminates from the man's body
They lose sight of the man and find a pile of fallen down trees. Suddenly, the snow monster bursts from behind the trees and stomps out, growling and struggling to walk on his leg
They run over and summon their weapons, preparing for a rematch
The monster walks past them with barely a glance
They put their weapons away and run after him
They run alongside his giant strides, but he stops and glares at them
The monster settles down
Marshmallow watches them talk
Marshmallow nods and Sora walks closer
Donald crosses his arms
They catch up and continue through the Snowfield. As they get nearer to Arendelle, they hear a voice up ahead
He turns to Marshmallow
Sora, Donald and Goofy run ahead, where Sven tosses Kristoff to the ground
He sees them run in
Donald sees they're alone
Kristoff sighs
Sven gives a sad whine
Kristoff shrugs, his shoulders slumped, and the wind picks up
They look down to the castle town, where a swirl of storm clouds have gathered
He runs off toward town with Sven in tow. The ground shakes and Marshmallow catches up to the three of them. He points toward the town
Marshmallow lets out a cascading roar
Donald and Goofy nod to each other and follow Sora into a run. They travel through the Foothills as the wind bares down upon them
Walking through the Foothills, they take cover behind rocks between the massive gusts of icy wind as Marshmallow braves the storm ahead of them. They catch up and stay behind the huge snow monster
As they near town, the wind calms slightly
The swirling clouds pelt Arendelle with snow
They run on ahead, where, like the fjord, the storm has frozen solid. Snow particles dangle in place in the still air. Anna walks along the ice, her hair now completely turned white. She is alone, shivering from head to toe. She sees Kristoff in the distance
He sees her
He runs her way as she hobbles in his direction. Anna hears the sound of a sword unsheathing and turns to see Hans with his weapon out stepping slowly toward the back of Elsa, who is on her knees
She sees Kristoff running towards her...and makes her decision. She turns away from Kristoff, who stops, just as Sora, Donald and Goofy arrive
Hans brings the sword up over his head to begin the swing as Elsa sobs, oblivious with grief. He brings the sword down, just as Anna rushes in to stop him...
...and she freezes solid. The sword makes contact and shatters, a pulse of magic knocks Hans off his feet as a final breath exhales from Anna
The unconscious body of Hans erupts with darkness, enveloping Sora, Donald and Goofy
They struggle to move as they are dragged down into the pool of darkness. Sora opens his eyes and they find themselves in a wide landscape with a giant glowing orb of darkness in the center. Particles dance around it and it changes form, growing long tail. Claws surface, stomping the ground, and two glowing red eyes appear as a giant wolf's head emerges bearing the symbol of the Heartless. The Skll howls, leaping into the air and hovering
Marshmallow catches up to them
The Skll begins by tackling them head on and running around the field. Sora strikes, but it knocks him back with a giant claw. With a wailing howl, it sails high into the clouds spinning itself into a giant ball of darkness. It grows larger and larger, getting spherical, undulating within the clouds. Darkness rains from the black sun as several wolf heads stream downwards toward the party. Casting back the shadows, the dark orb slowly encroaches on the ground, threatening to crash into the earth. Marshmallow rushes forward and grabs the orb, holding it away from the ground
Sora leaps up to the dark sun, spinning his Keyblade on its surface in an attempt to dispell the darkness
He spins his Keyblade faster, struggling against the weight of the orb that's only purpose is to crush them. Suddenly, the dark breaks beneath his fingers, giving way to light as cracks form on the orb's surface. The orange tendrils snake their way through the giant dark sphere, light shining outward from every crevice. The orb shatters into ice and the Skll falls to the ground. After a few more minutes of fighting, the Skll leaps into the air for a second chance, creating another black sun, however this last-ditch effort cannot sustain the fusion and it explodes brightly, expelling its energy in a giant blast. Marshmallow steps in front of Sora, Donald and Goofy, shielding them as the blast hits. He roars, struggling against the mighty wind, until his knees buckle and he's swept over them. He cries out, unable to catch anything to grab, as the wind sweeps the trio off their feet behind him. Feeling a cold surface against his chin, Sora awakes back on the frozen fjord. He along with Donald and Goofy get to their feet, seeing the sight before them. Sora starts to run, but something stops him. Elsa is weeping, her arms draped around the frozen form of Anna as Olaf, Kristoff and Sven look on. The sorrow in the air is palpable. Suddenly, the area around Anna's heart begins to steam and then melt, the magic making its way across her shoulders and down her arms and the cape billowing around her. Olaf gasps and Sven nudges Kristoff, who was looking away. Kristoff's eyes widen and Sora, Donald and Goofy wait with bated breath. The melting spreads through Anna's toes and fingertips and she finally takes a breath, her braid falling over her shoulder. The trio rush forward excitedly, but are surrounded by a whirlwind of darkness
The whirlwind encases them in a dome and a flash spreads out from it, casting the world out of time. Sora peers through the dark wind, where Arendelle outside has stopped moving. Larxene appears before them
They take a defensive stance
Donald and Goofy jump
Larxene giggles through a wide grin and vanishes along with the dark dome
Elsa looks up, noticing her sister is alive. She smiles, giving her a big hug. Sora frowns, despite the happy reunion
He looks back at them
Olaf gasps, lifting his head off his body
Elsa and Anna hold hands
Elsa looks down at her hands
She spreads her arms downward and the ice from the fjord spreads out in a snowflake shape, magically taking off into the air. Kristoff marvels at this sight as Sven tries to catch a floating snowflake on his tongue. The magic spreads beneath Sora, Donald and Goofy who jump for joy
As the lake thaws, a ship beneath the ice rises to the surface under their feet. The frozen magic flies throughout the down, breaking through the snow on the rooftops and the water in the fountains. As Elsa raises her arms, the floating ice coalesces into a giant snowflake in the air, and she blasts it apart with a wave. Everyone is overjoyed to see the sun, and Anna places her hand on Elsa's shoulder. Sora and company leave Arendelle and travel to Yen Sid's tower, where the sorcerer has also summoned King Mickey and Riku. They turn as the door opens
They fill everyone in on what they've learned so far
Donald and Goofy nod
Sora feels a tugging in his chest
Riku laughs
Donald and Goofy start to laugh, followed by the King
Riku places a hand on his shoulder
Donald and Goofy move aside and Jiminy Cricket jumps down onto the duck's hat to whisper softly to each other
Everyone but Sora chuckles
They stand at attention
In the Badlands on the outskirts of the Keyblade Graveyard, Marluxia and Larxene stand atop thirteen pillars of earth
Marluxia gives a small laugh at the title
She gives him a coy smile
They look over to another pillar, where a man with blond hair is holding a large sitar
He smirks
Demyx tunes his strings
Larxene bursts into laughter
Xemnas appears on another pillar
Larxene points towards Demyx
A man with short blond hair and multiple earrings appears on the pillar adjacent to Demyx
He plays with his cards in his hand
They each react with surprise and skepticism as Xemnas gives a breathy laugh. Meanwhile, Sora, Donald and Goofy return to Le Grand Bistrot in Twilight Town to give Little Chef more ingredients from their travels. Scrooge walks into the kitchen where Little Chef is perched on Sora's head
He takes out a present
He offers the present and Sora takes it, laughing
He lifts a finger to the rat, who high-fives it confidently. Later, Sora sets sail for a world of ships and sea-faring pirates. A sea shanty plays to open our tale: Yo ho, yo ho, a pirates life for me The Kraken leapt from the ocean brine Look out, me hearties yo ho And to the Locker the sparrow confined Look out, me hearties yo ho Yo ho, yo ho, a pirates life for me A goddess thought she'd a sparrow save Look out, me hearties yo ho And brought a blackguard back from the grave Look out, me hearties yo ho Yo ho, yo ho, a pirates life for me The Flying Dutchman is on the hunt Look out, me hearties yo ho To punish a sparrow for his affront Look out, me hearties yo ho Yo ho, yo ho, a pirates life for me Within the chest his secret sleeps Look out, me hearties yo ho The heart of Davy Jones still beats Look out, me hearties yo ho Yo ho, yo ho, a pirates life for me Sora, Donald and Goofy arrive in the night under a cloudless sky
Sora hums to the song as Donald and Goofy row, each dressed in pirate garb
They sail upon a fairly small raft lit by a single lantern. The fog looms around them
He points ahead confidently
Sora puts on his best pirate voice
He points forward
He chuckles, then glancing at Donald, realizes what Goofy said
Up ahead, the ocean water rushes forward and down into an abyss, dragging the raft with the current. The raft rocks, knocking Goofy over while Sora clutches the mast
Goofy and Donald try rowing with reckless abandon as the edge grows nearer
The raft reaches the edge and careens over the waterfall, sending Sora, Donald and Goofy screaming over the world's end. In the midst of Davy Jones' Locker, the trio awake and sit up, surrounded on all sides by endless dry sand. The three sigh together
Eventually, they get up and walk across the empty dunes, only finding more sand ahead of them, no matter how long they trudge
He looks up through the heat in the air, making out an image of a pirate ship sailing over the desert
He stops, causing Goofy, and then Donald, to crash into him
The duck shrieks as he also sees the ship
Strangely enough, the ship comes clearer into view, drifting through the sand as if by magic
They run to catch up to the forward vessel, being pulled by an incalculable amount of odd white crabs. From behind, a familiar man gains on them and then passes by, raising an arm in greeting
Jack stops momentarily to face them
Donald giggles
He looks back at Jack, who's already begun running again
They race to catch up with the Black Pearl, but are delayed by attacking Heartless
The Pearl turns, sending cannonfire in their direction
They avoid the cannonballs and take out the Earth Core Heartless, using the slowed momentum of the Pearl to their advantage. Reaching the still moving ship, a group of Anchor Raider Heartless appear, swinging the anchors at the end of their right hands like propellers
Together with Captain Jack, they take out the Anchor Raiders and take back the Pearl. Jack Sparrow watches from atop the mast as the ship crests the final sand dune and reaches the sea's edge of Davy Jones' Locker. Sora, Donald and Goofy stand at the bow, as more familiar faces stand aghast at the sight from the beach. Elizabeth Swann and her betrothed Will Turner are joined by the previously deceased Hector Barbossa and others in their crew. A mysterious woman with dreadlocks named Tia Dalma pets the crab in her hand, chuckling to herself. Will watches in amazement as the Black Pearl settles into the water with a loud splash. As Jack and the trio disembark from the Pearl as it reaches the sea, a smiles comes to the faces of both Elizabeth and Joshamee Gibbs, Jack's first mate
Jack's face twitches
He turns to Sora
Sora gasps
Barbossa smiles at them cheekily as the wind blows through the feather in his wide-brimmed hat. Jack saunters forward towards him
Will and Elizabeth walk up to Sora and friends
They notice her more pirate-y clothing
Donald whimpers
Jack notices the mysterious woman with them
She smiles at him
She chuckles softly
He motions toward Sora, Donald and Goofy
He looks at her, cycling through his emotions
He walks up to Elizabeth, narrowing his eyes, and Will moves forward
Jack turns to her
He throws his hands up in the air. Sora turns to Donald and Goofy, crossing his arms
They nod
He walks up to Tia Dalma and copies her infectious smile
Gibbs gives a satisfied chortle
The crew starts toward the Pearl as Jack takes out his compass, the needle spinning continuously. Unsatisfied, he closes it. A captain without a heading
He looks over, seeing a grinning Barbossa holding up the ancient charts
Hector taps on the maps with his long fingers forcing Jack to hold back a sneer. Later, once everyone is aboard, Jack lets Sora try his hand at the wheel
He places a hand on Sora's shoulder
Jack leans in closer, pointing ahead
He gives an excited laugh
Later, after sailing for a while, the ship has nearly come to a stop. Sora, Donald and Goofy sit on deck at the base of the mast
Jack stands at a pair of barrels, idly playing with the rings of the map charts. Tia Dalma walks up to them and smiles
The three tense up and Sora tries to cover
Donald and Goofy nod in agreement
Will concerningly looks toward Elizabeth, who herself is frowning, her back turned to him
Sora, Donald and Goofy whimper
She leans over him
She stands, turning in Jack's direction
Sora glances at Donald in mutual understanding
She chuckles, placing a hand over her chest
Meanwhile on the deck of a separate vessel, Vexen stands with Luxord
Vexen narrows an eye
He disappears in a corridor of darkness. Back aboard the Black Pearl, Sora along with the ship and the crew have been entirely submerged in the water. They hold their breath as the sun sets with a flash of green. Suddenly, the water surges downward and the Black Pearl emerges from the sea, the briny water splashing off its sails. The crew inhales the sea air and regains their bearings. Sora stands, waving water off his wet clothes
Jack stands up and adjusts his hat
He looks out to sea, Will following his lead
They gaze at another pirate ship sailing in their direction
A horde of Vaporflies sails out ahead of it
Tia Dalma smirks at his understanding of the situation as a Raging Vulture Heartless soars above the ship. It roars, sending a cascade of energy from its two cannon wings
The first strike hits the water, causing a giant splash and rocking the Black Pearl, knocking the crew off balance and spraying them with mist
Tia Dalma whispers something in Sora's ear
She laughs softly, smiling as he looks back at her before walking away
The Raging Vulture flies overhead
Vaporfly Heartless zoom above them, leaving trails of colored smoke in their wake
Sora runs forward before they can stop him
He jumps off the ship's deck and onto a blue smoke trail, riding it up into the sky
He reaches the Vaporfly and jumps aboard. Utilizing the Vaporfly's torpedoes and flight, Sora weakens the Raging Vulture before leaping aboard the Heartless itself. As he grabs hold of one of the Vulture's back spikes, the Heartless flaps its wings, flying higher into the sky. Once it settles down, Sora leaps across its back from spike to spike. The bird's long neck turns to face him as he reaches its head and screams in his face, almost knocking him off
Sora leaps at the face of the Vulture, serving up a killing blow. A cracking sound reverberates and the Heartless starts to glow, a giant Heart rising out of its body as its form dissipates
As the Vaporflies vanish in succession, Sora is stranded in the air
He falls, landing straight down into the water. Not too long after...
He opens his eyes, seeing the faces of Donald and Goofy staring down at him
He lies on a sandy beach with the sound of the waves in his ears
They nod and he slowly sits up
They turn to see Jack approach from behind
A white crab falls out from behind his leg and scuttles away. Meanwhile, aboard another ship, the Endeavour, the real Jack Sparrow has been pulled aboard and into the Captain's Cabin, where he finds Lord Cutler Beckett
He holds out a small glass of sherry, which Jack takes
Beckett raises his own glass up to drink, which Jack takes also
Jack drinks the first glass
and the second
Beckett pops the cork on the bottle of sherry and pours another drink
Jack picks up a small human statue
Back on the Huddled Isles, Sora, Donald and Goofy are with Jack
He turns away, leading them further into the island
Donald and Goofy exchange puzzled looks
Sora can barely contain his excitement
Sora chuckles happily and starts to follow Jack, Donald and Goofy after him
Sora stops, reflecting on what Tia Dalma has whispered to him earlier
He turns around
They explore the island, swimming into one of the many underwater caverns
They see two strange glowing rods emerging from the seabed
A chest is nestled directly between the rods
He swims closer
Sora smirks
Sora swims to the sea floor and taps on the treasure chest. Suddenly the ground beneath him quakes, sending up dirt in the water and clouding his vision, as two gigantic blue jaws clamp over him and the chest. Breaking out of the ground, the Lightning Angler ejects Sora from his mouth and attacks them. After a strike with electricity from the Heartless's many glowing spikes, the trio manage to dislodge the treasure chest from within its throat. Its eye scans its surroundings, trying to make a break for it, but crashes into the cave wall. The Heart floats out of its body as the rocky wall opens into a further cave containing jellyfish. Exploring the inner cave, they reach a tunnel that becomes shallow until they wade into a huge open-air cavern. Inside, they find an abandoned pirate ship with orange sails
They run forward, Sora leaping into the air
He laughs
Jack appears from up on deck
Donald stamps his foot
He walks forward, but stops
He turns around in their direction
He waves them on
They enter the Leviathan and Sora takes the helm
He nods, grabbing the help with both hands and taking a deep breath. Ahead, the cave wall collapses into open air, the bright sun shining through and allowing the seawater to unmoor the ship from the sandbar
The ship sails out of the cave, free to sail the Caribbean ocean. Once they find their bearings, they sail into a fog, where a giant ship silently sails near them. Its sails are emblazoned with the Nobody insignia
Donald and Goofy summon their weapons
Goofy sees a hooded figure on its deck
The hooded figure removes his hood to reveal...
Luxord boards the Leviathan
Jack's face twitches
Jack mulls over this
Luxord teleports from the Leviathan back to his own ship
Jack starts walking toward the stairs
Sora runs after him
Jack rushes up the stairs
Sora rushes to the helm and the race begins
They sail east, weaving between small islands, and fighting off Heartless ships until they have Port Royal in their sights
They near the waters of the port
From behind the fog looms heavy and other ships appear around Luxord's vessel, gaining on them
Luxord raises an arm
From both sides, the ships aim their cannons at the Leviathan, rocking the boat
Sora nods
Sora spins the wheel with a large thrust and the ship begins to turn as a multitude of cannonballs splash in the water around them, near misses. It's a full-on naval battle as they take down the sister ships in Luxord's fleet. Soon they focus their efforts on taking down Luxord's ship. When the mast topples over, the battle is nearly won
They launch their arrow-shaped anchor into the ship and use the chain to board
Luxord snaps his fingers summoning a group of Heartless and Nobodies, and retreats into the ship. Once the battle is over, Luxord reappears, clapping
Luxord quickly brushes away the polite insult
There is an awkward pause
Jack has half-way realized his mistake
Sora realizes
Sora, Donald and Goofy summon their weapons
Jack draws his sword and Donald glares at Luxord
Luxord disappears into a corridor of darkness. Sora hears a buzzing off to his right
A group of Vaporfly Heartless swoop in and knock the party back onto the Leviathan. Sora gets up, rushing to the edge of the deck, and sees that Luxord's ship has vanished
He starts to run for the helm
They dock at Port Royal and walk up the marina
They search Port Royal from top to bottom for the elusive white crabs. After gathering a sufficient amount, they return to the Leviathan
Jack leaves momentarily and brings the ship back to shipshape
Sora's eyes widen at the question and he thinks on it
Sora smiles for a moment
Three white crabs fall from his body and one scuttles away, catching Donald's attention
Donald and Goofy nod
Jack begins to glow
Jack explodes into a burst of light, leaving behind a pile of white crabs. They settle on the dock and splash down into the water. The trio watch them go
He smiles brightly
He gets Donald and Goofy to join him
The three of them punch the sky
Before meeting in battle, on a sparkling white strip of sand, Captain Jack Sparrow, Elizabeth, and Barbossa walk away from a longboat beached on one side, toward a second longboat on the other side. The threesome draw near to the three others who have docked: Cutler Beckett, Davy Jones and Will Turner. Jonas, as per his curse by the goddess Calypso, stands in a bucket of water. They regard each other in silence; this is an attempt at parley
Elizabeth and Barbossa look to their left at Jack, who looks to his left, too. He makes no effort to corroborate Beckett's words
Jack turns to Elizabeth and Beckett perks up
Barbossa and Sparrow are taken aback by this offer
Elizabeth turns away from him to Jack, the reason for her being declared Pirate King of the Brethren Court. He smirks and doffs his hat
Barbossa draws his sword and slices at Jack, just missing him and tearing off the circlet coin that hung from his hair. It falls to the sand and the two men regard each other
Jack moves to cross and Barbossa picks up the coin with a smirk
Will and Jack complete the cross, keeping eyes on each other. Reaching Beckett, the lord motions Jack to stand beside Jones. He does so nervously, donning his hat, and Jones breathes menacingly in his face. Beckett steps forward and Jack saunters to the side making space between him and Jones
Elizabeth moves closer
Elizabeth walks away, followed by Will and Barbossa. Meanwhile, Sora, Donald and Goofy return to the High Seas and look off to the north, where large clouds have begun to gather
They sail into the Northern Waters, the wind blowing through Sora's pirate garb
Nearly to their destination, the fog looms heavy and out sails Luxord's ship
He snaps his fingers and more ships appear around him as his disappears
Goofy blocks the sun with his hand, seeing the fleet of ships before them
Sora steers the ship to the right, aiming the starboard cannons in the fleet's direction. Keeping the wind in their sails, they target the Heartless ships, managing to sink several of them. Once out of range, Sora turns again, but the maneuver slows their speed such that they take on some cannonfire, sending splinters of wood into the air. Getting the boat back on track, they are surrounded, with ships on either side planning to cut them off or ram into them. They ready both the port and starboard cannons as the wind direction changes, speeding them along. Seeing their chance to neutralize the threat if they can pass through to Shipwreck Cove faster than the fleet can catch them, they open fire on the enemy, sending bursts of wood and sail crashing to the depths of the sea. The fog lightens once safety is assured
Sora nods. Sailing into Shipwreck Cove, amongst the incredible amount of pirate ships Sora spots the Black Pearl as a torrent of crabs flow over the sides into the water. Calypso has been freed. Will looks up as the Leviathan pulls alongside
Sora, Donald and Goofy board the Pearl
The sight of a few straggling crabs on the deck catches Sora's eye
A crab scuttles up to Will's shoe, but quickly turns away from the obstruction
Sora remembers Tia Dalma's words once again
He looks down at the crabs
He turns to Will and Elizabeth
Donald and Goofy nod
The hopeful determination coming from Sora is infectious, even catching Barbossa's interest
Donald nods vehemently
Elizabeth looks toward the sky, where the wind has picked up. Mr. Gibbs follows her gaze, as does Barbossa
She turns, walking across the deck past the crew
She ascends to the edge of the deck, grabbing hold of the rigging
The rest of the crew release shouts of tenacity
The clouds above begin to rotate and sheets of rain begin to fall. Lightning strikes down at the sea as a giant whirpool begins to turn slowly. The two formations converge, the Black Pearl outpacing the pirate fleet and the Flying Dutchman outpacing the Armada. Between them the sea continues to swirl. The two warring ships sail into the maelstrom and ready their cannons, the Leviathan following the Pearl. Cannonfire thunders as the two ships battle across the abyss. In awe of this spectacle, Sora steers the Leviathan as the rain pelts down on him. Luxord appears on the quarterdeck and Sora whirls around
Luxord walks to the edge of the ship, looking down at Jones's vessel
Luxord gives a haughty chuckle
He looks over at the Black Pearl, still firing on the Dutchman
He snaps his fingers and the boat lurches upward as thick, slithering tentacles rise out of the water surrounding the Black Pearl. The crew dives out of the way as they crash down onto the deck. Barbossa holds tight to the helm as the ship is lifted high into the air by the Kraken. Sora's eyes grow wide
Luxord vanishes in a corridor of darkness
Sora maneuvers the Leviathan alongside the Kraken in an attempt to free the Black Pearl from its clutches. The Flying Dutchman uses this opportunity to fire on the Leviathan, expecting the Pearl to be crushed by the sea monster. Meanwhile, Jack has secretly escaped the brig on the Flying Dutchman and gotten his hands on the chest. He stops as Luxord appears before him
Jack walks right up to him, wagging a finger in his face
He presses further, causing Luxord to step back
He nearly pins Luxord to the overboard railing and holds up the chest
He breathes directly in Luxord's face. The stench is unbearable and causes Luxord to fall from the ship into the water. Jack cups a hand to his mouth and breathes again, slightly coughing himself
He walks further down the deck and comes face to face with--Davy Jones. Jack reels back in surprise
Jones swings his arm, or tentacle rather, and Jack starts to run as Sora, Donald and Goofy have come aboard the Dutchman
They jump down to the deck between Jack and Davy Jones, and summon their weapons. Jack turns to see them and laughs, unsheathing his sword
Lightning flashes
They attack the captain of the Dutchman getting in a few successful hits before the cursed pirate sinks into his ship
He reemerges from the crow's nest above, cackling, as the tentacles of the Kraken rise up around the ship, swiping at Sora and the others. One tentacle spirals around Donald and squeezes him
Sora rushes up the stairs and strikes down the squirming appendage, releasing Donald from its grasp. Davy Jones returns to the deck as the Kraken retreats, but is knocked back by Jack Sparrow
Davy Jones growls at him, rushing forward with his sword. Jack jumps back, knocking away Jones's blows, until the swords cross at a standstill
Sora tries rushing at them
A tentacle crashes down to the deck in front of Sora, stopping him in his tracks, and a second one emerges from behind, trapping the three inside. The two ships are drawn closer in an ever-tightening circle as Jack and Davy Jones spar. The fight takes them to the yard atop the mainsail where they exchange sword blows. The giant masts of the two ships tilt toward each other before slamming together. Jack loses his balance and the chest falls, just as Will swings to the deck from the Black Pearl. He bends and picks up the chest, running across the deck as a tentacle emerges from the floor. It slithers beside him and knocks him over, spilling the chest from his hands to the rain-soaked floor. Davy Jones jumps down to the deck, walking towards the chest, when Jack drops drown in front of him. They strike each other with their swords and Jack moves so the ship's capstan is between them. Jack and Jones try to fake the other out in which direction to go around the capstan before Jones realizes the game's folly. Jones walks THROUGH the capstan, alarming Jack. He leaps from the capstan slashing at Jack, who knocks the sword down, before swinging back at Jones with his own. In a quick movement, Jones grabs Jack's sword with the large claw that is his left hand. Jack tries to push back, but Davy Jones cleaves his sword in two and punches Jack hard in the face with the same claw. Jack lands hard on the deck as Elizabeth swings in between Jones and the chest
She draws her sword as Will awakens. He looks over, seeing Elizabeth knocked away against the stairs, dropping her sword. As Jones moves in for the kill, he is run through with a sword by Will
Jones looks back at him before swinging around and kicking him in the face with his peg leg. Elizabeth brushes her wet hair out of her eyes as Will squirms on the deck of the Dutchman, weaponless. His eyes shift toward Elizabeth. Davy Jones looks from Will to Elizabeth
Jones lurches across the deck toward Will
Jones looks over to see Sora, Donald and Goofy
Sora's words taste bitter in Jones's mouth
Jack arrives
Jones raises his sword to Will's neck
Jones turns, seeing Jack with the chest open, his broken sword aimed at Jones's still-beating heart. Above, Vexen watches the scene unfold
He angrily whisks away
Without hesitation, Jones stabs Will Turner and cackles. Sora screams, leaping at him along with Donald and Goofy as Jack looks at Will, mortally wounded. Sora punches Jones in the face as Elizabeth races toward Will
Jones knocks Donald and Goofy off of him before grabbing at Sora and doing the same
As he moves to strike Sora, he feels a sudden shooting pain and cries out in anguish. He blinks, looking back toward Will. Jones's heart has been stabbed. By Jack's shortened sword. And Will's hand is on the sword hilt. Davy Jones stumbles back, his mortality returning, and he falls over the rail, plummeting down into the sea, at one with Calypso at last. Barbossa is at the wheel of the Pearl
The ships spin. The point of no return. On the Dutchman, Elizabeth weeps over Will's body
Jack grabs Elizabeth, pulling her away from Will
She struggles briefly, but the grief is overwhelming. They escape to the Black Pearl once the ship wrenches free from the Dutchman and Will and the ship vanish into the whirlpool. The maelstrom ends as they regroup with the crew aboard the Pearl
His hands mimic the act of running away
Mr. Gibbs and Elizabeth watch as Jack moves toward the wheel
On the Endeavour, Beckett sees the Black Pearl, sails luffing, helpless. Below him on the gun deck, the cannon ports open and the cannons emerge
The armada reforms behind him and Beckett sails in for the kill. Suddenly, the Flying Dutchman breaks the water's surface, up from the depths, sailing alongside the Black Pearl. A clean slate gray, no longer encrusted. On the deck, William Turner puts his hands on the helm, a dark, avenging anger in his eyes, now in control of the Flying Dutchman
Elizabeth smiles
Will turns the wheel of the Dutchman as Barbossa does the same with the Pearl. On the Endeavour, Beckett's smile fades as the Dutchman and the Pearl split, sailing to either side of the Endeavour, trapping it between
The Dutchman and the Black Pearl open fire and we see the full fury of these two ships for the first time. Cannons blast and blast and blast, the crew on the Endeavour screaming in the furious broadside. Beckett stares in disbelief as his ship is blown to pieces
A mast falls and the deck gives way, the Endeavour sinking into the Caribbean. On the Black Pearl, the crew cheers. Donald and Goofy share a fist bump
Sora looks back at Elizabeth, who is staring out at the Dutchman
Will's gaze is drawn back to Elizabeth
Gibbs walks up to Elizabeth
She smiles, walking over to the crew gathered on deck. Barbossa addresses her
She walks up to Sora, Donald and Goofy
She walks up to Jack Sparrow
She smiles
She leaves
Behind them, the Leviathan's magic wears off and it bursts into thousands of white crabs that sink into the ocean. Meanwhile, Axel sits alone in the Secret Forest in his usual black coat
He turns to see Kairi in her new outfit
She giggles, showing it off
He scratches his head and she giggles, sitting down next to him
Axel takes in her words, agreeing
He pauses
He leans back on his hands
She points to her head and he laughs softly
He smiles at her. In the Dark World, Mickey and Riku are fighting the Demon Tower once again with their repaired Keyblades. The tower strikes at Riku twice, but he dodges before it slams into the ground, forcing him to jump away. The Shadows scramble across the sand as Riku catches his breath. From behind him, the energy rebuilds
The Demon Tower wriggles in the air, bending over and twisting into Riku, knocking the Keyblade from his arms. It dissipates when it hits the sand
The swarm of Heartless knocks Mickey off his feet and he also drops his Keyblade, consumed by the swarm. Riku lifts himself up
In the Woods of Twilight Town, just outside the Old Mansion, a corridor of darkness appears and Ansem, Seeker of Darkness strolls out of it, followed by Ansem the Wise. From behind a tree, Hayner, Pence and Olette watch
Hayner covers Pence's mouth
He moves ahead as the two skulk behind him. As both Ansems walk into the courtyard, the trio peek out from behind the gate. Ansem the Wise stops just before the entrance door, forcing Ansem to turn around
Ansem the Wise looks up to the curtained window
Olette and Pence gasp
He grabs Ansem the Wise's shoulder and pushes him toward the door before Pence pops in
Ansem stops
Ansem whirls around at this interruption
His distraction enables Olette to run inside the courtyard
He starts to approach them
As he walks toward Pence, Olette rushes and grabs Ansem the Wise
Ansem spins around, seeing Ansem the Wise escaping as Hayner runs in, attempting to jump kick him from behind
The Dark Figure emerges from behind Ansem and catches Hayner in its grip
The Dark Figure tosses Hayner at the brick wall of the courtyard but a strange white blob curls around him and cushions the blow. He bounces to the ground safely. More white blobs fly through the air from behind corners, like wispy trails. They surround Ansem and the Dark Figure, revealing themselves as Dusk Nobodies
It uncurls from Hayner as he sits up in disbelief
Pence grabs Hayner's arm
Pence helps Hayner up and the two run back to the Woods. Ansem focuses his attention on the Dusks
He sneers
Olette and Ansem the Wise escape to the Underground and Hayner and Pence catch up
They catch their breath
He reaches into his pocket and takes out the photo of them together with Roxas
A cloaked man enters behind them
They whirl around, seeing the scientist with blond hair
The wispy blobs float in behind Vexen and become Dusks again. Their appearance unsettles the trio. However, Vexen bows his head
Sora, Donald and Goofy leave the Caribbean and travel to a world of science and skyscrapers
He laughs, amazed by the bright orange suspension bridge he arrives on
He can hardly tear his eyes away from the skyline
Goofy giggles
Sora takes out his Gummiphone
He fiddles with the phone to Donald's annoyance
An explosion rocks the bridge and they look down the road to see a cloud of smoke and a group of purple flying creatures
They summon their weapons
The rush forward just as a figure in a yellow suit flies over them. They turn back to see them slide against the pavement, a set of discs falling off their suit
The trio look up to see something large and red flying in over them
It lands with its rocket boots pointed toward the ground as the smaller purple-suited passenger jumps off its back, rushing to the yellow figure
The boy looks over the fallen girl, then up to the robot in the red suit
The robot scans the girl
The trio runs up to them. Baymax and the boy turn around and the robot holds up a welcoming hand
Sora reacts in amazement
Goofy waves and the boy smiles, running up to them
Sora smiles
The group run across the Golden Gate Bridge
Baymax shoots forward with his rocket boots, his wings engaged. The group tussles with the Heartless in the light of the setting sun. Traffic has stopped on the bridge due to the commotion as Pole Cannon Heartless appear, scattered between the cars. Sora slides to avoid their rocket fire and hides behind a red car
Sora slides between cars, sniping the Pole Cannons. A great stomping quakes through the bridge as a giant Metal Troll Heartless makes its way toward them, knocking away cars in its path
A yellow car becomes a missile swung by the Metal Troll's mighty axe, flying right at Sora and Donald. Donald screams and the two run as it crashes to the road, throwing up sparks against the pavement. The troll stomps closer, knocking the car away again
It hones in on Sora, roaring at him
Together, they defeat the Metal Troll and regroup in Hiro's Garage. The Sokyo News releases an article about the attack that Hiro pulls up on his computer: MYSTERIOUS MONSTERS ATTACK! Crisis struck San Fransokyo today when a horde of unidentified creatures attacked the populace without warning. Local superteam Big Hero 6 was nearly deep-sixed when they came to the rescue, raising questions about just how prepared they are to protect the city. Will another group of crimefighters rise up in our hour of need? Or is there no force capable of containing this new threat? In the opinion of this humble reporter, the city's days are numbered, so grab your wallets, keys, kids, and pets, and get your kiesters to the airport before it's too late.
Hiro closes the article
Sora, Donald and Goofy chuckle
He stands up from his chair
Outside of the red flying suit, Baymax resembles a rotund and squishy marshmallow. Hiro motions to the girl in the yellow suit with purple streaks in her hair
She regards them coolly. Hiro points to a tall guy with dreadlocks in a green suit
He looks up to a tall girl with long hair in a hot pink suit. Draped around her shoulder is an orange purse
A three-eyed monster with an angry expression walks up to Sora
He jumps back and pulls down the hood of the costume, revealing a boy wearing a beanie
Donald and Goofy rush to cover Sora's mouth. He shuts up and Hiro turns to his gang
Sora looks on Hiro's computer, seeing a poster of Big Hero 6
They strike a pose and a light shines behind them. The group doesn't react outwardly
He raises a finger
Baymax glows orange
Sora nods
They give a collective sigh
Donald and Goofy nod. Hiro watches as they start to leave
Hiro shakes his head
He smiles and his friends agree, followed by Sora
He flips his hood back on and strikes a Wushu salute
Hiro hands Sora a futuristic-looking headset called an AR device
Sora puts on the headset and Hiro steps aside to reveal a Shadow Heartless
He summons his Keyblade
Hiro steps back in
Sora switches it off. Then back on again. Off. On
Fred starts jumping around, chanting
Baymax lifts a finger
Sora, Donald and Goofy scratch their heads
They head to the city. Sora rides on Baymax as he flies past a fish-shaped windsock overlooking the city, a trail of smoke spewing behind him. A high- pitched squeal and they shoot forward with his rocket boots, curving through the skyscrapers. Sora releases shouts of fear and delight as the red robot turns a quick right, then a left into the North District railroad tunnel. Flying back upward, then ducking beneath the red lanterns hanging from a giant archway, they pass an oversized statue of a sushi-cook which waves its mechanical arms. They meet up with Fred, Wasabi, Go Go, and Honey Lemon on the roof of a building. Baymax lands in a superhero pose, dropping off Sora, then taking off back into the sky. Sora hears Hiro's voice through his headset
A tunnel of colored rings appear in Sora's vision through the AR device
Fred, Wasabi, Go Go, and Honey Lemon jump from the roof following their own path of virtual rings. Baymax flies overhead
Sora rushes ahead collecting the colored rings on the building in front of him before dropping to the street below. He hops aboard a railing as Go Go rolls by him on her wheeled boots
More rings appear along the path as Go Go splits off to the right
Sora jumps from rail to rail, making his way to a building with a high- powered fan. He shoots into the air collecting a string of rings as Fred jumps in the air beside him, Wasabi clutching the suit's tail
Wasabi's whimpering in fear implies that it isn't awesome for everybody
Fred cackles and Sora lands on a gigantic red ball with the face of a Daruma. His balance starts to shift as the ball rolls forward off the building
It lands on the road beneath and Sora begins rolling along down the street
Sora collects rings with the ball and hops off at the base of a skyscraper
As Sora runs up the skyscraper, Honey Lemon creates colorful platforms by tossing chem-balls from her purse to ascend beside him
Sora reaches the roof of the skyscraper where the rings extend out from the building
Sora airsteps off the building, flying through the rings to the windsocks hanging in the air as Baymax flies ahead. Sora catches up to Baymax
Proceeding further, Sora reaches for a virtual star high above a building and Baymax catches him on the way down. Later, Sora runs down the street as Go Go races alongside him. He summons his Keyblade and airsteps to a post ahead, surprising her. He jumps from the post to a building and begins running up the side, magical blue dust eminating from him. She stops, watching him run
A virtual Tireblade Heartless in flight mode swoops down at Sora and his AR Device locks onto it. Jumping ahead, he drives the Keyblade through it, releasing the heart from within. More appear as he reaches the top of the building, where Wasabi is. Sora changes the form of his Keyblade into Double Arrowguns and shoots down the Heartless with ethereal arrows
He looks down at his energy-covered gauntlets
Honey Lemon hides near a group of virtual Pole Cannon Heartless, thinking up a strategy to defeat them, while Sora reaches the edge of the building and changes his Keyblade to the Magic Launcher, striking the enemies with a charged cannon
Sora runs ahead into a group of Tireblade Heartless. He jumps to the right ascending the building as the Heartless engage their flight mode and follow him. Sora aims his Keyblade and releases a Blizzara spell, shattering the Tireblades, as Fred watches from below
He looks down at his claws
He takes off excitedly and Sora hops down
They all start talking at once in Sora's ear. He winces at first, but smiles
Back in Hiro's Garage, Hiro is enthusiastically typing at his computer, creating updates for his pals' gear. Goofy and Honey Lemon create new elemental combinations for her chem-balls. Wasabi praises Hiro on his new gauntlets and Donald imagines having one of his own. Fred gives Hiro difficult specifications for his suit, but Sora comes up with an easier solution. The data from Sora is updated for Baymax to use and Hiro ejects the data chip from the drive. He walks up to Baymax and presses the port on the robot's chest. It opens, displaying Baymax's chip slots. Hiro inserts the updated battle chip into Baymax and the port closes
The video on Hiro's computer suddenly broadcasts a news update
They rush to the screen, seeing Heartless marching through the city
Hiro closes the broadcast and turns to Sora, who nods
The rest of the group agree. They make it to the South District, where people are fleeing the chaos. Sora turns down an alley, finding a large group of various Heartless as Baymax catches up
Sora looks up and his AR Device searches for a target. A large shape is moving on the roof of a building
They fight the Heartless from the ground to the roof, where they're surrounded by Mechanitaur Heartless. They take the group out and Sora dispels his Keyblade
There is a large crash in the middle of the city as a titanic Catastro- chorus Heartless stomps through. It eyes a green car on the road and chases after it, terrorizing the driver. It jumps onto an overpass, sending citizens screaming for their lives. Baymax flies over carrying Sora, Donald and Goofy as the giant dinosaur-like Heartless bellows loudly. They spot it from above
Baymax's rocket boots engage and he swoops down with a superhero landing, knocking Donald off and Goofy off-balance. Sora jumps down from Baymax's back as the Catastrochorus stomps toward them. Sora summons the Keyblade as it gives off another roar
The dangerous dino sends huge fireballs from the volcano on its back as it stops across the pavement. Sora gets in a few good hits before it leaps to the top of a skyscraper, its roar sending shockwaves around the city
They take care of the smaller Heartless that pop up to bar their way to the building. After ascending to the roof, the dino tail has formed into a small cloud with eyes, sending bolts of lightning to strike at them. Sora evades the lightning and pummels the Catastrochorus until it falls. Sora returns to ground level, scanning for more threats as Go Go is being chased by a small group of Heartless
She speeds ahead, charging her magnetic disks from the friction against the ground. She leaps into the air as she reaches a building, engaging the electromagnetic suspension to defy gravity. Spinning around, she stops midair on a high story window, facing the ground below and the Heartless persuing her. Smirking, she tosses a disk, which slices through the Heartless near the ground before flying back to her arm, and drops back down off the building. A few blocks down, Wasabi stands on a rooftop shooting his plasma lasers at a group of flying Tireblades. They dodge most of his attacks, starting to wear him out, but Honey Lemon runs in from behind
She tosses a purple chem-ball at the Heartless which bursts into a purple cloud of smoke
She starts typing in a new combination into her purse
Out from her purse comes a red chem-ball and she smiles, tossing it into the cloud. It turns into a solid block of purple hexagons, trapping the Heartless inside, and falls to the ground
She smiles at him and he aims his gauntlets to the ground, destroying the block with the Heartless inside. As it bursts into a puff of smoke, Fred leaps through into another group of Heartless
Fred blows a torrent of icy wind from the mouth of his monster suit, freezing the Heartless in place. Then, switching to fire, becomes a human flamethrower, unfreezing them
He jumps into the air, now spewing out fire and ice together, eliminating the Heartless flying above him
Up in the sky, Baymax flies in, engaging the rocket boosters on his armored fist. It shoots away from him and flies through the Heartless fighting Sora, Donald and Goofy. One Tireblad avoids the attack and flies in front of Sora, who grits his teeth and takes it down in one strike. The fist returns to Baymax's arm and he lands near them
Baymax raises a fist
Sora taps his fist against Baymax's, while Donald does the same with Goofy's
Baymax flutters his fingers upward in the air
Sora, Donald, and Goofy do the same with confused looks. Suddenly, a Metal Troll drops from the building behind them. The three summons their weapons
They rush forward
They turn to see Hiro, Fred, Wasabi, and Honey Lemon ready to fight
Go Go rolls in
They run forward and clash with the Metal Troll. Later, the group relaxes atop the Golden Gate Bridge, treating themselves to chocolate ice cream bars. Fred jumps around Donald, excited
Honey Lemon giggles. They sit and watch the sunset
Go Go shares Hiro's grief
Hiro and Sora take bites of their ice cream
Sora leans back
Morning bells ring and Sora becomes Roxas as Hayner, Pence and Olette eat sea-salt ice cream beside him, if only for a moment
Hiro takes another bite as Sora looks down at his hand, coming to his senses, and places it over his heart
Later at night, the friends walk through the city together. Fred stretches after a long day while Hiro and Sora chat. They hear an odd sound woosh behind them and whirl around
They see a jellyfish-shaped cluster of blocks floating through the air
Fred closes his hood and jumps ahead
Fred, Wasabi, Honey Lemon and Go Go charge ahead after the strange entity. Hiro engages his headset and analyzes the threat
They fail to hear him
He trails off upon seeing their ever-more confused faces
He gasps
He puts on a determined face
Sora puts on his visor and Hiro smiles
The trio start walking in the direction of the block monster
Sora smiles
They search the city for the enemy while Hiro races home
Sora leads them to the North District. The blocks fly behind them, causing Baymax to turn around
He points upward and the strange entity floats above a building, wiggling its blocky appendages
The body folds its arms into a heart shape. It floats down at them, partially glowing red, and shoots red blocks in their direction. They evade the attacks, but are unable to make headway against its shifting form
It spirals aside and changes direction, flying elsewhere in the city, faster than they can run after it
Sora sees the analysis readout in his headset
Wasabi lets out a scream
Honey Lemon shoots a chem-ball, creating a pink blobby platform against the side of a building as the cubes persue her. It attacks, and she jumps to another platform
She continues running as the shifting bots attempt to strike Fred, but he counters by freezing its appendages
The blocky arms begin to free themselves
Honey Lemon pops out a yellow chem-ball from her purse as the Darkubes slam into the building opposite her
She tosses the yellow chem-ball against the pink platform she stands on and it bursts into a blue cloud of smoke, just in time for the Darkubes to strike. Wasabi shoots his plasma lasers at the Darkubes long arms, bursting loose blocks from the main body. The arms swipe at him, but he dodges
He looks up and jumps just in time to dodge another strike. Go Go blades down the city, jumping over the railway as the Darkubes fly after her
He nods
Hiro busily types away at his computer
A map appears on the screen with the locations of the four heroes
They summon their weapons
They start racing through the city to the nearest hero
In the Central District they reach Honey Lemon's indicator, but don't see her
The Darkubes holding Honey Lemon are gathered in the center, with each arm held down by different colored blobs. Sora strikes an orange one with a Fira spell and the Darkubes' arm falls off. He repeats this with different spells on each blob until the arms pulse with an orange glow along its arms and Honey Lemon busts free
She hops away
They approach Wasabi's indicator at the top of a blue-ringed skyscraper where he finds a large orb of Darkubes
Sora leaps over a high-powered fan, which sends him soaring over the Darkubes. On his descent, he readies his Keyblade with a laugh, slamming it into the Darkubes. An orange pulse radiates through the blocks until Wasabi busts out, landing on the rooftop
He jumps to the edge of the building and, swallowing his fear, leaps off
Sora descends the building, seeing a large rolling ball made of Darkubes which matches Go Go's indicator
They pass the giant red ball from earlier and Sora leaps aboard
Sora rides the ball through the North District to cut off the rolling Darkube in its path. He crashes it directly into the Darkubes, which crackle with electricity, before falling to pieces. Go Go bursts out and lands on the pavement
She rolls away as Sora continues his search
They reach Fred's indicator, where he is trapped in a bunch of Darkubes suspended between four light posts
Spinning horizontally on each light pole, the Darkubes' arms fall away and the central mass starts to give
The blocks explode in all directions as Fred leaps out of it
He lands, making sure his hood stays on
He turns
He hops away
The Darkubes gather on the top of the tallest building in San Fransokyo
The Darkubes resemble fireflies as they float in the air of the South District as Sora and company reach the top of the skyscraper. They amass into the largest orb of blocks so far, its outer layer rippling as they arrive
Fred hops closer
The AR display glitches like an old videotape
He attempts to press the button on his headset, but it has no effect. Looking ahead, he sees a cloaked figure walking in his direction
The figure removes his hood, revealing shoulder-length silver hair just like...
Sora dispels his Keyblade
Riku conjures a red object from thin air
Riku holds it up, peering at it with his yellow eyes
The chip has a skull and crossbones drawn on it. Big Hero 6 reacts with shock and disbelief
Riku faces the Darkubes
He tosses the chip into the nest of Darkubes before vanishing in a corridor of darkness
The Darkubes assume a heart shape and begin to spin uncontrollably, glowing a bright greenish-blue. Its arms lash out, knocking Go Go, Wasabi, Honey Lemon and Fred off the building
The Darkubes aim and shoot a spurt of blocks in their direction, but they dodge the attack. Assuming a heart shape once again, the core is exposed as a small single block with glowing yellow eyes. However, the core is too high for Sora to reach. Without warning the Darkubes glow red and slam into the ground, swiping away at the group before reassembling in the air as a giant fist. Sora dodges away as it narrowly misses a deadly punch from the blocky foe. Forming a heart shape again, Sora takes the initiative
Sora rides on Baymax's back
Baymax engages his rocket boots and flies through the center of the Darkubes. Sora and Baymax strike at the central core repeatedly until the outer blocks fall still, disappearing until only the central core is left. It falls to the ground and Sora releases a final strike, freeing the heart inside from the Heartless. The red chip clatters to the floor
Hiro runs over and kneels to pick up the chip
Riku snatches it up first
Hiro attempts to get it back, but Riku jumps to the top of a device on the roof
Donald and Goofy rush in front of Sora
Sora remembers Young Xehanort's explanation of time travel
He looks up at Riku
Riku smirks
Sora dispels his Keyblade
He looks at the chip in his hand
Riku turns away from them
Riku vanishes
Hiro looks back to his friends, who are worn out from tonight's events
They return to Hiro's Garage
Fred jumps to the center of the room
He agrees and stops
The trio look down
Hiro smiles
There is silence for a moment
He motions toward the others in the room and there is a big crash that shakes the entire building
Hiro rushes to his computer and pulls up a breaking news broadcast reading Mysterious Monsters Renew Attacks. Giant flying creature terrorizing San Fransokyo. Police to impose curfew. The screen shows a visual of the Darkubes
Meanwhile, Maleficent and Pete walk along the overpass of the quiet city. Dark Riku enters behind them, causing them to turn around
He leaves them
Later after sunrise, the gang finds the Darkubes above a tall building
Baymax lands on the roof
Hiro walks forward
Riku smiles
They look up to the flying wind sock, where Riku is perched, staring down at them
He leaps down off the wind sock, summoning the Soul Eater, using it to slice through the Darkubes core. He lands on the ground, dispelling his weapon as the Darkubes disintegrate. He stands, a piercing grin on his face, and holds up the chip, which brims with darkness
Riku kicks a few of the blocks, which move slightly, glowing a faint red
Riku turns toward the Darkubes and raises his arm. A dark portal appears in the sky and the Darkubes begin to float, being pulled as if by magnets into the portal, some glowing red, and others, green
Once the Darkubes have all been gathered into the portal, they return out in a single round mass, all glowing red with lightning bolts dancing around its outside. It descends slowly, pulsating
He chuckles nervously
The Darkubes begin to recede and a white arm emerges from the mass of blocks, surprising Hiro. Sora summons his Keyblade
Sora looks from Hiro to the Darkubes
They slowly recede from Baymax's body, but unlike his usual red armor, he is clad in a deep purple suit with spiked pauldrons. His right arm is covered in miniature Darkubes shaped in an oversized fist. He lands in front of Riku. Big Hero 6 exchange looks of concern
Riku laughs darkly
He lifts up the red chip and Dark Baymax's port opens as Riku inserts the chip. The port closes and Dark Baymax's eyes glow red
Riku disappears in a corridor of darkness
Dark Baymax engages his wings and takes off into the sky. They realize that he's heading for Hiro
Go Go, Wasabi, Honey Lemon, and Fred try to intervene but Dark Baymax swipes them away. Sora, Donald and Goofy hold Dark Baymax back from Hiro, when Baymax 2.0 punches him away. Dark Baymax sails through the air and over the edge of the building. The others run back to Hiro
Dark Baymax rises back to the roof, his Darkube arm becoming more of a claw. Donald and Goofy run forward
Hiro clenches his fist
Donald and Goofy hold Dark Baymax back
Sora smiles before rushing forward just as Dark Baymax knocks Donald and Goofy away. He flies back up into the air
Baymax readies his wings and flies to Sora, extending his arm. Sora grabs it and leaps on Baymax's back. They ascend into the skies of San Fransokyo, following Dark Baymax. They fly through the city streets as Dark Baymax shoots Darkubes back at them. Sora shoots magic bolts at Dark Baymax as Baymax 2.0 punches the Darkubes back at him. They sail through each District, over and under the railways in an effort to catch up with the dark robot. Dark Baymax pulses with purple energy as they corner him in the South District
A surge flows through Dark Baymax and the red behind his eyes flash, Darkubes sparkling in the air around him. He strikes aggressively with his large claw and Baymax and Sora dodge backwards. Dark Baymax extends his wings and raises his arm, summoning a torrent of dark rain upwards that falls back down, cascading in Sora's direction. With a quick boost from Baymax's rocket boots, they aerial dodge as it narrowly misses them
Baymax 2.0 flies at the Dark Baymax, performing an uppercut and interrupting his summoning of Darkubes. Immediately, Sora continues his barrage of magical bolts as Baymax pummels Dark Baymax
Sora leaps off of Baymax from above his dark doppelgnger and as Baymax persues Dark Baymax from behind, Sora drops in above him, knocking him away. Baymax swoops by and Sora grabs his extended hand, leaping onto his back again and dispelling his Keyblade. Baymax jolts, being pulled backwards as Dark Baymax grabs onto his rocket boots and swings Baymax and Sora toward the ground. Baymax regains his orientation and clutches Dark Baymax's own rocket boots, pulling him down. Sora screams as their descent results in a tussle through the air. Dark Baymax's large claw grasps Baymax's arm, but Baymax knocks it away and engages the rocket in his fist, punching Dark Baymax away from him. As Baymax reaches the ground, he slows his descent with his rocket boots as Dark Baymax crashes to the earth. Baymax 2.0 turns back as his fist returns to his suit. Sora leaps off Baymax and rushes to the dark robot, which sparks as electricity courses around the broken armor. Donald and Goofy arrive with the others
They rush past him and Hiro stops at the sight of the fallen Baymax
He kneels down by his friend
Hiro shakes his head and taps open the port on Dark Baymax's chest. He removes the red chip
The Darkubes fly into the air in spirals as Baymax's armor starts to glow a bright red. The cubes blink away, leaving behind the white pillowy form of Baymax. Hiro places a hand on his friend
Hiro places a hand over his own heart
He opens his palm, looking down at the red chip
Hiro destroys the chip. Later, they gather in Hiro's Garage
Eyes open
They rejoice as Baymax is restored and Hiro rushes to hug him
Baymax 2.0 hugs Hiro as well as Goofy and Donald laugh, everyone chattering excitedly
Hiro sighs
After unsuccessfully convincing Hiro, the three pals leave their new friends in the big city of San Fransokyo. They return to Le Grand Bistrot in Twilight Town. After giving Little Chef more ingredients, they walk out of the restaurant with Scrooge
The rat smiles and nods from atop Sora's head
He scratches his temple
Sora turns to face Scrooge
Sora's eyes move upward to Little Chef's direction. He moves his arm and the rat runs down to his hand, facing Sora. Sora chuckles and high-fives Little Chef with his finger
Little Chef nods confidently, winking. Later, they return to their Gummi Ship. Sora's Gummiphone starts to ring and Jiminy leaps into his shoulder as he pulls it out
Donald and Goofy walk to Sora's chair and Sora answers the call. Dale appears on the screen way too close to the camera
Chip yanks Dale away from the camera
Dale pushes Chip out of the way
Chip pushes Dale away and Jiminy hops down
Donald groans
Sora stands and summons the Keyblade, aiming it ahead of him. The tip glows and a portal opens outside the ship
Sora puts away the Keyblade
Sora sits at the controls and pilots the ship through the wormhole, the portal closing behind them with a ripple. The bright warm sun shines down on the sandy beaches of the Destiny Islands. Sora, Donald and Goofy walk along the seashore
Walking further down the beach, Sora comes upon a Keyblade in the sand, the teeth of the blade forming the shape of an 'E'. Sora kneels down and picks it up
He holds it in both hands, looking it over
He aims it forward and a beam erupts from the blade, striking a corner of the beach where a tree meets a rockface. The area glows, revealing a door. They rush over to it
Sora closes his eyes, steeling himself
Sora takes a few steps forward
He smiles and Donald and Goofy exchange concerned looks. They nod softly to each other
Sora turns around and enters the Secret Place. In the Dark World...
The Demon Tower wriggles in the air, bending over and twisting into Riku, knocking the Keyblade from his arms. It dissipates when it hits the sand
The swarm of Heartless knocks Mickey off his feet and he also drops his Keyblade, consumed by the swarm. Riku lifts himself up
The Demon Tower coalesces under swirling winds into an orb of darkness before Riku's very eyes. Purple fragments gather within the orb, pushing out of it. The bubble bursts and a dark figure leaps out landing on the gray sand. King Mickey watches from his prison in the orb as the dark figure walks toward his Keyblade, picking it up
Mickey gasps at the familiar voice
The darkness peels away at the woman, revealing blue hair
She turns, revealing her yellow eyes
She turns and walks to the shoreline
She walks over the water
These words speak to Riku
Riku clenches his fist in the sand
Riku walks toward her
In Riku's heart, a version of Riku from the past wearing the dark clothes of his possessed self walks to his side, the Riku Replica. In his hand he holds a special Keyblade, the Way to the Dawn. He looks over at Riku and smirks, before vanishing into particles of light. Riku clenches his fist again and summons his Keyblade, walking over the water after Aqua. The orb holding Mickey floats over the water between them, becoming a swirling mass of Shadow Heartless once more. He strikes at the swirling mass, sending Shadows flying left and right. The Demon Tower takes on a purple aura and splashes downward, the Heartless's eyes glowing red, as Anti-Aqua appears, raising the Keyblade in her hands
She summons large icy spikes, sending them careening toward Riku, before releasing the Demon Tower once again. Riku lands back on the water, breathing heavily
A light shines from above and a door appears, the same door from the Destiny Islands. Sora soars in, landing with a splash on the water
Riku smiles back at Sora and dispels his Keyblade as the Demon Tower swirls in front of them. Both Sora and Riku hold their arms out together, eminating a brilliant white light. Above, two colorful Keyblades, Nightmare's End and Mirage Split join together to form a giant two-handled blade. Sora and Riku lift their arms, raising the powerful Keyblade, which glows with a warm light. They throw their arms forward and the light washes over the Demon Tower, dispersing the Shadows inside. They release Mickey from their hold, sending him falling to the beach with a shout. Riku rushes over to him and Anti-Aqua races after him. She raises the Keyblade as Riku summons his just in time. The blades clash, sending up a gigantic splash. As the misting water falls away, Sora is holding back Aqua's Keyblade from Riku, sparks flying from the blades' contact. Riku stands with his mouth agape. Anti-Aqua leaps backward. Sora looks back at Riku, giving him a reassuring smile, which Riku returns
Sora dispels his Keyblade and summons the one he found on the island
Riku rushes back to Mickey as Sora dispels the Master's Defender in favor of his own Keyblade to face down Anti-Aqua. She teleports over the water, sending a strike of dark energy in his direction. She spirals on the water, summoning a dark Blizzard spell. Two identical clones appear wielding the same spell, closing in on Sora. They release shards of ice that whiz by Sora's head, just missing him, before encircling him in a glowing snowflake. He narrowly dodges, but is struck by an icicle. He runs forward, but Anti- Aqua teleports three times in succession, causing him to miss with each strike. For a moment, he sees no one on the water, waiting with bated breath, but then he turns his head. She walks slowly away from him
Sora's eyes lock onto her and he leaps into the air. Suddenly, she cartwheels to the side and strikes again. Sora catches himself, but at his chance to strike, she vanishes again. She reappears with multiple illusory copies of herself
Sora sends multiple projectile attacks until they hit their mark, exposing the true Anti-Aqua as the doppelgngers disappear. As Anti-Aqua reels back from the onslaught, Sora goes in for the final blow. She takes a few steps back, holding her head as darkness pools at her feet. With labored breaths, she stumbles backwards, releasing her hold on the Star Cluster Keyblade. It glows and disappears away from her. As she falls backwards if in slow- motion, the darkness she harbors chips away. Aqua lands in the pool of darkness and sinks into the water. Above, a light shines through the blue abyss. She opens her equally blue eyes
She closes her eyes, assuming for the final time
At the voice, she opens them again seeing a boy holding out his hand, reaching for her. She met this boy once. What was his name?
She extends her hand and they touch, a brilliant light erupting from it. Warm like the sun. She opens her eyes. The sky is blue and the waves are calm and the sand is soft. In the haze of the light from the Destiny Islands, Aqua sees Ventus and Terra
Her surprise turns to comfort
The haze starts to clear and the images of Ven and Terra become that of Sora and Riku
She turns to see him
She looks around at the environment, still sitting on the sand
Riku shakes his head with a smile
The revelation strikes a chord, the emotion welling up inside her, the weight of the loneliness and despair that she had been holding onto for years suddenly exits her body in the form of tears. Seeing this, Sora extends a warm hand
His smile is infectious
Donald rushes forward to hug her, along with Mickey. Goofy joins in
Sora grabs hold of Goofy and they all release a relieving laughter. Riku puts a hand on Sora's shoulder
Meanwhile in Radiant Garden, Vexen speaks with Demyx
Vexen clamps a hand over Demyx's open mouth
He looks around warily and Demyx releases his hand
He wags a finger in Vexen's face
Demyx covers Vexen's mouth this time
Vexen looks around again and Demyx lets up. Vexen coughs awkwardly, regaining his composure, and sighs, turning away from Demyx
Demyx narrows his eyes
He turns away, but Vexen rushes after him
He grabs him by the shoulder
He waves him closer and whispers in Demyx's ear
He smiles and does a small leap
He swings around making happy fists in the air as Vexen rolls his eyes
Inside the castle, Ienzo stares at the computer screen, which displays an image of Ansem the Wise from a decade ago
A corridor of darkness appears behind him
Ienzo whirls around, seeing Demyx enter, carrying something wrapped in a white cloak. He chuckles, looking around
Demyx raises an arm
Demyx lays the cloaked bundle on the floor and rotates his shoulder and stretches his neck
He walks up to Ienzo
He walks back to the corridor of darkness and places his hands on his hips. He moves aside as if presenting something
Out of the corridor walks Ansem the Wise
The portal closes and Ansem the Wise stands with his hands behind his back
Aeleus and Dilan run into the room, equally shocked, both speechless. Ienzo steps forward, his feelings twisting and turning inside his stomach
Ansem places his hands on Ienzo's shoulders
Ienzo looks up at him
Aeleus comforts a remorseful Dilan and Demyx interjects with a nervous laugh
He points to the bundle on the floor
They look down at the replica in the cloak
Later, Sora, Donald and Goofy accompany Aqua down a foggy road
She smiles to herself and the trio exchange glances as they arrive at Castle Oblivion. Aqua takes a deep breath with her hand over her heart. Donald looks from Aqua to the castle, then back to Aqua. Then the castle. Then Aqua. Then he starts getting impatient, tapping his finger on his arm. Just as he decides he's finished waiting, Goofy clamps him up, muffling his squawking, as Aqua summons the Master's Defender. Donald taps on Goofy's hand to get his attention. They watch as Aqua aims the Keyblade at the castle doors, a Keyhole appearing with a dazzling light. Donald breaks free from Goofy's grip and the three stare in amazement. The wind whips around them and Aqua steels her resolve. She thrusts the Keyblade forward and a beam of light sparks forward into the Keyhole. The trio shield themselves from a burst of wind, while Aqua stares unblinking as the seal on the castle breaks. A projection of her former home rises on the face of the castle and the many towers and floors readjust themselves to match the projection, untwisting and untangling the endless halls, everything clicking into place. The shadowy darkness of the clouds around the castle are pushed back to reveal the brightest blue sky of the world knows as The Land of Departure. They walk forward in awe of their surroundings. Inside the castle, they walk through the entrance hall taking in its splendor. Aqua turns to face them
The three of them nod and they walk through the golden halls and ascend the stairs to the Great Hall, where they find Ventus sleeping in the center of three large chairs. Aqua rushes to his side
She touches his face and places her head to his
He doesn't stir and she tries to shake him
He still doesn't stir
Sora, Donald and Goofy turn to see Vanitas walk in
Aqua rushes forward, glaring
Sora, Donald and Goofy summon their weapons and rush at him. Vanitas chuckles and vanishes as they reach him. He reappears behind them, but before Sora can react, he disappears again. Aqua searches the room for him, but he reappears on top of Ven's chair
Aqua summons her Keyblade
She leaps up at him, pulling back the Keyblade for a great swing. She whips it forward but it is met by Vanitas's Keyblade. She pushes against him, but he fights back
She jumps away from him, flipping backwards to land on her feet, as he persues her to the floor
She created a hexagonal barrier around herself and Vanitas. The trio move backwards as it expands. Sora places a hand while Goofy bangs his fist on the barrier
Vanitas readies to fight. Demonstrating years of honing her craft, Aqua fights circles around Vanitas. All of the darkness he can muster fails to snuff out her light. In midair, she swings her Keyblade forward knocking him away, both fighters falling to the floor. Vanitas turns his head toward Ventus and cackles. He brings his Keyblade back behind his head, igniting the teeth of the blade and sending a meteor straight toward Ventus, creating a deep crack in the magical barrier. Sensing his plan, Aqua leaps to guard the weak point just as Vanitas sends a second meteor to finish the job. Aqua slams to the ground, her Keyblade vanishing, as Vanitas releases a dark laugh. Sora watches, helpless, as Vanitas walks over to Aqua and raises his blade
Sora feels a sudden tug in his chest. Above the stained glass in Sora's heart, Ventus floats, his eyes closed in sleep
The stained glass platform shines with a light and Sora appears. He lifts his Keyblade and the tip glows. A Keyhole appears on the floor in front of him and light ripples through the stained glass. Sora rises off the platform and the Keyhole shines brilliantly. Soon, thousands of white birds take off from the Keyhole, the light growing along the glass, revealing Ventus's platform. Sora aims his Keyblade, shooting a beam of light at Ventus's heart
Ventus's eyes begin to open as Sora watches Ven's heart ascend, finally released. The light shining from Ven's body catches Vanitas's attention as Ventus smashes through the barrier
He strikes Vanitas's blade, clenching his teeth, and the clash between light and darkness spills over, shattering the barrier. It settles around them in magical shards and Sora, Donald and Goofy rush forward. Vanitas bites his tongue and leaps over them silently
He disappears in a corridor of darkness and the group dispels their weapons. Ven helps Aqua stand
Ventus pauses momentarily, noting the similarity between Sora and Vanitas
He extends a hand
Ventus smiles, shaking the thought away, and takes Sora's hand
Aqua touches his head
Later, the seven guardians of light, along with Donald and Goofy meet in Yen Sid's study
She looks to Ventus, who nods
Mickey blushes
They all laugh
He gives her a sheepish smile
Axel clears his throat
Interrupting Axel, Aqua walks up to Kairi, bending closer to see her necklace
Kairi is speechless
She bows
Axel clears his throat again, more forcefully this time
Ven smiles and Axel notices
Axel gasps, pointing to his temple
Jiminy emerges from Sora's hood and hops onto his head, surprising Axel
She places a hand over her heart
Donald taps Sora's leg
They laugh
Later, Aqua and Ven walk down the steps of Yen Sid's tower, looking up at the life-sized painting of stars in the sky
Ven sits on the steps
Ventus takes out his Wayfinder, holding it up to the stars
Aqua takes her Wayfinder out, holding it the same way
Meanwhile in Twilight Town, Maleficent walks through the Tram Common. She looks over as Pete walks toward her
She taps her staff against the ground
She enters a corridor of darkness and Pete, groaning, follows her in. Elsewhere in Twilight Town, Axel sits atop the clock tower with three bars of sea-salt ice cream. He bites into one with a sad look on his face
He looks up, stunned, as Sax enters from around the corner
He sits next to Axel on the ledge
Sax takes one of the ice cream bars
Axel looks at them
Sax begins to eat his ice cream
These words sting Axel
Axel's eyes widen
He looks at the second ice cream
Sax finishes his ice cream
Sax stands up slowly
Sax smirks
He disappears in a corridor of darkness and Axel's face softens in the light of the eternal sunset. On the Destiny Islands, Riku sits on the beach, staring out at the setting sun
Riku looks over at the voice, his initial surprise turning to warm comfort
Next to him on the beach is the Riku Replica
Riku gives a small laugh
The Replica smiles
Sora and Kairi sit on the small island next to the Seashore, watching Riku
Sora hears a rustling and Kairi hands him a star-shaped fruit
He looks down at the paopu fruit and up to Kairi's smiling face
He takes the fruit from her
Kairi shakes her head
What once was just a symbol drawn on a cave wall has now become real. They stare into each other's eyes in the glow of the setting sun. The next day, they arrive in the dusty deserted Badlands
Aqua, Ven, Donald and Goofy nod
Up ahead, through the hazy air, Master Xehanort walks toward them, a dark glint in his eye. He bares his teeth
Ansem, Seeker of Darkness appears to his right
Xemnas appears to Xehanort's left
Vanitas and Young Xehanort appear in front of them
Darkness eminates from the five of them and consumes the landscape. Heartless begin falling from the heavens in massive numbers, joined by Nobodies and the Unversed
Donald, Goofy, Kairi and Axel show faces of concern and Mickey summons his Keyblade
Everyone summons their weapons and dives into the fray until the battle- field is cleared of the numerous enemies and Sora, Donald and Goofy stand alone
They walk through a long crevice, catching up to the others at the edge of a wide, barren field
Axel gives a thumbs-up
Aqua and Ven nod before something up ahead catches Ven's attention. As the haze clears, Ven sees...
Ventus runs toward him
Ven grabs Terra's wrist
Aqua catches up and looks into Terra's eyes
Terra's eyes move only slightly and Aqua pulls Ven away from him as the others catch up
Ven eyes grow wide
Terra smiles and closes his eyes. They watch as his hair turns white, steeling themselves for another battle. He opens his yellow eyes: Terra- Xehanort
He brims with the power of darkness
He summons his Keyblade
Xehanort moves quick as lightning, while Aqua paralyzes, and strikes Ven full blast with the Keyblade. Ven crashes to the ground, unmoving, and Xehanort smirks to himself. Aqua stares at Ven's fallen body
Sora summons his Keyblade and runs to strike Xehanort, but the man stops his Keyblade just inches from his hand with a Gravity spell. Try as he might, Sora can't move the blade in any direction. Xehanort widens his fingers, knocking Sora away. He turns his attention to Kairi, but Axel moves to cover her, and Xehanort knocks him through a boulder
Xehanort raises his blade and Sora gets up, rushing toward her
Donald and Goofy run after him as Sora grabs hold of Kairi, covering her. Xehanort brings his blade down, slamming into Goofy's protective shield. They both go flying in opposite directions. Donald focuses and a magic circle appears underneath him. King Mickey's mouth drops and Goofy lands on the ground
An incredibly powerful burst of energy explodes from Donald's magic wand, enveloping Xehanort and casting him away. Sora smiles once the flare dies down, but the wand falls from Donald's hand and he collapses to the ground. Sora stands frozen as Mickey, Goofy, Kairi, Riku, and Aqua run over to their fallen companions
Sora is stunned
A dark pool emerges from the ground, frothing with malice, as the Demon Tide erupts from within. Sora stands still as it swirls in the air. Riku turns toward Sora, grabbing his shoulder
Aqua walks up to them as the swirling mass of Heartless grows more violent
Sora and Riku nod. The three run forward and summon their Keyblades. Aqua turns back to the others
From different corners of the Graveyard, more Demon Tides arrive and merge with the spinning swarm before then becoming a massive tornado of Heartless. They stare, wide-eyed at this monstrosity, power in a scale they've never faced before. From within, Aqua sees something that terrifies her
She lowers her Keyblade as the despair settles in and before anyone can react, the Demon Tide strikes her down
The squirming evil sweeps along the ground, carrying Ventus, Kairi and Axel away. Goofy and Mickey are helpless to stop the tide and are lost among them as well. Sora reaches out to Kairi and she does the same as she is pulled back into the raging cyclone by the Demon Tide. Sora drops the Keyblade, falling to his knees, and screams at the top of his lungs, overcome with grief as Riku rushes to his side
Tears well up in his eyes
Riku is at a loss for words
His tears fall to the ground
As Sora cries, Riku resists the urge to let him continue. He clenches his fist and stands up
Riku walks forward as the Demon Tide swirls closer. He plants his foot on the ground and raises his Keyblade, shielding Sora. As the Tide approaches, he slams his blade into the swarm, the force of the wind blowing through their clothes. He rages against the force of the Tide, his body blackening as Sora watches. Even with all of his strength, the Heartless overtake him and proceed to wash over Sora. And so, as foretold, darkness prevailed, and light expired...
The Boy in White scans the chessboard
The Boy in Black scans the board and the Boy in White lifts his final white piece
The Boy in White places it on the far edge of the board
Behind the single white piece carrying a crown token, seven more white pieces appear on the board and the boy smiles
On an endless sea and sky stretching onward to infinity, a light shines onto the transparent body of Sora. Sora opens his eyes and sits up, taking stock of the world he finds himself in. He stands, the water splashing beneath his feet paired with no other sound at all
He wanders the bright expanse, searching for answers
He looks around for the source of the voice
A tiny light sparkles down in front of him, making an odd mewling sound, it reaches down to the water, which ripples as if something had set its feet down on it. There is a bright flash, causing Sora to shield his eyes as a small cat wearing a cape and a coin purse appears in front of him
He summons his Keyblade and starts to leave in a rush
He turns back
Sora dispels the Keyblade
He puts his hands behind his head casually
Chirithy shakes it off
Chirithy vanishes in a burst of light and Phantom Soras appear, wandering around the endless expanse
Once Sora has collected the wandering Phantom Soras, a portal appears and the top of his body has begun fading in again. He sees a strange glimmer in the midst of the never-ending sky and approaches it. It sparkles fading in and out in the shape of a star
Sora looks himself over, unsure what to say
She gives a tender laugh and Sora smiles
He sits down, his eyes to the sky
The Star whispers into Sora's ear and surprise shows on his face
He looks around before standing up again. Soon after, Sora finds more glittering stars floating in the abyss, each telling a different story
Even without a form, Namin smiles
He turns
She gives a small laugh
He leaves
Sora enters the portal, ending up on a labyrinth of crystalline stone. As his foot touches a cube in the ground, the ground shakes and he almost loses his balance. Sora nervously runs forward reaching a second cube, which causes pillars to rise around and below him. He sees more Phantom Soras running, walking, dancing, jumping, swimming all around the crystal structure, defying the natural laws of gravity
Sora rides a rail of light over to another pillar and strikes at a floating cube, causing the crystal structure to shift
The platform rotates underneath Sora, granting him access to more of the structure
He begins gathering more pieces of himself, more of his body regaining its opaque form
The structure shifts suddenly, and he falls off and strangely falls toward the structure again, where another portal appears. He activates it, stepping back into the expanse of sea and sky. He looks his recollected self over before hearing that odd mewling sound again, signaling Chirithy's reappearance. The cat materializes in midair and lands on the water slightly off-balance
The cat points away from him and Sora crosses his arms
He chuckles, holding a hand to his ear
He leans down
Sora smiles and stands back up
Chirithy watches him go and is puzzled when he stops in his tracks
He turns back, smiling sheepishly
He turns around and summons the Keyblade. He holds it in front of him and a Keyhole appears on the reflective water. Energy gathers at the end of the blade and there is a flash of light. The floor shatters, revealing a gate with a brilliant beam of light shining up into the sky
Sora gives Chirithy a small smile before entering the light
Sora returns to his weakest moment
Riku walks forward as the Demon Tide swirls closer. He plants his foot on the ground and raises his Keyblade, shielding Sora. As the Tide approaches, he slams his blade into the swarm, the force of the wind blowing through their clothes. He rages against the force of the Tide, his body blackening as Sora watches. Even with all of his strength, the Heartless overtake him and proceed to wash over Sora. Sora floats in the abyss as streaks of light pass over him. He awakens, seeing the light ahead of him
He reaches toward the light
The light grows brighter as he flies closer. Soaring into the light, he finds himself in familiar territory
Sora ascends the golden stairs warily
Jiminy Cricket pops out of Sora's hood and into his hand
Sora smiles down at him
Sora proceeds into the Courtyard, finding a transparent comatose Riku floating above a massive golden sacrificial tripod
Sora rushes toward him and a swirling cloud of darkness appears above Riku. It coalesces into a Heartless holding a large staff and trailing chains beneath it:The Lich. It gazes down at Riku with its glowing yellow eyes, holding out a hand over his body. Riku's heart appears over him and the Lich encircles it with chains to Sora's horror. The heart vanishes and the Lich floats toward the Corridors. Sora pursues the Lich through the archway, finding a group of Shadow and Neoshadow Heartless in the way
Sora blasts through them and races to the Cloud Ridge, more Heartless appearing before him
The Lich flies into a dark portal and Sora follows. It takes him up to the Apex where the Lich waits. The Heartless shoots fireballs at Sora, but he dodges and pummels the Lich until Riku's heart flies out of him. The chains shatter and the Lich escapes through the portal once more
The heart floats away into the air and Jiminy appears
Sora and Jiminy follow the Lich through the portal. They find themselves floating in starlit space with six portals beneath them
Sora falls through a portal and finds himself in the Caribbean aboard a damaged pirate ship. The Lich chains Aqua's heart and attacks Sora with bullets of water. Sora dodges the attack and the Lich summons Vaporflies which hone in on Sora. As Sora fights the Vaporflies, the Lich creates images of itself. Sora strikes down a Vaporfly as one of the mirages explodes near him, sending him flying. He shakes it off and strikes back at the Lich until it gives up Aqua's heart. The heart floats away and the Lich escapes again
Following the Lich, Sora falls through space again
Sora falls into the portal leading to Arendelle. He arrives in the Middle Tier of the Labyrinth of Ice where the Lich captures Goofy's heart. The Heartless summons multiple Winterhorns, while floating out of reach. Ignoring the Winterhorns, Sora locks onto the Lich, storing up projectiles to release, but is caught off guard when the floor buckles and he is struck by an ice pillar shooting up out of the floor. After returning to his feet, he attacks the Winterhorns only to be hit by an ice spell from the Lich, which freezes him momentarily. Once free, he knocks the Lich around until it relinquishes Goofy's heart. It retreats again into the portal
Following the Heartless again, Sora finds himself in the Lobby of Monsters, Inc., where the Lich takes control of Donald's heart. It then releases a 6-fold fire attack, but Sora blocks them by spinning the Keyblade. After a few minutes of fighting, Donald's heart is also freed and the Lich escapes
Sora follows it
Sora falls through the portal leading to Galaxy Toys, where Ven's heart is taken by the Lich. The Heartless raises its arms, summoning Marionettes around the large central gumball machine. While Sora is focused on the smaller Heartless, the Lich's staff erupts with electricity. It aims several disc-shaped bolts of lightning at Sora, but he knocks a stuffed patchwork animal in the way to block most of the attack. Sora whacks the Lich with the Keyblade until it falls back and Ven's heart floats out of the empty heart in its chest, its chains falling away. The heart floats out of reach and the Lich returns to the portal once more
Entering the portal again, Sora descends to an entrance to the Marshes in the Kingdom of Corona, where the Lich floats over King Mickey's body. The Heartless chains the mouse's heart and summons a group of Flutterings. This time ignoring the smaller Heartless and going straight for the Lich, Sora gets a few hits in before it teleports away, leaving a mirage in its wake. Dodging the inevitable explosion afterward, Sora rushes to the Lich, but is knocked back by a whirlwind that surrounds the deathly Heartless. Sora strikes back with a Thunder spell, sending bolts of lighting against the Lich, breaking the whirlwind. With the path clear, Sora strikes the Lich until it releases Mickey's heart and ducks back into the portal
Sora rushes into the portal, seeing one remaining gateway
Sora soars into the gate, landing on the streets of San Fransokyo where the Lich takes control of Axel's heart. The Lich sends Sora flying in the air with another wind spell, but he recovers only to be hit by a group of fireballs. Sora falls to the ground, where the Lich summons an army of Neoshadows. The Keyblade wielder dashes to a free-standing light pole and spins around it, using the momentum to leap up at the Lich. Unrelenting, he strikes the Lich until it stops moving, and dispels the Keyblade. The Heartless brims with darkness and fades away, letting go of Axel's heart. It floats away into the night sky. Sora walks through the city streets with Jiminy on his shoulder
A corridor of darkness opens in front of them and Young Xehanort walks through
Young Xehanort walks closer and Jiminy hides
Young Xehanort points toward Sora, but he holds a hand to his heart
He looks up to the sky
He turns away from Sora
Sora gives a proud laugh
Young Xehanort backs into the corridor of darkness, facing Sora
Sora runs forward, but the corridor closes and Jiminy peaks out
Sora realizes his phone is ringing in his pocket and he picks it up, Chip appearing on the screen
Dale pushes Chip off-screen
Chip comes back into frame and nods. Jiminy gives a small laugh of happiness
Sora again floats through the tunnel toward the light. He looks forward, seeing Kairi ahead of him, smiling
He floats closer to her, grabbing her hands in his
She giggles and they fly through the tunnel together
He smiles happily
She smiles to herself and grabs his hand
They fly toward the light at the end of the tunnel and Sora remembers the powers of Rapunzel, Elsa, and Anna
He grins
They fly into the light hand-in-hand until the world turns white. Not a second later, Sora feels the earth beneath his feet and they return to the Keyblade Graveyard
He looks around, seeing the rest of them safe and sound
They proceed through the Badlands and return to the wide, barren field. As the haze clears, Ven sees...
Ventus runs toward him
Ven grabs Terra's wrist
Aqua catches up and looks into Terra's eyes
Terra's eyes move only slightly and Aqua pulls Ven away from him as the others catch up
Ven eyes grow wide
Terra smiles and closes his eyes. They watch as his hair turns white, steeling themselves for another battle. He opens his yellow eyes:Terra- Xehanort
He brims with the power of darkness
He summons his Keyblade
Xehanort, brimming with darkness, smirks before moving to strike. A large dust cloud erupts and Xehanort's blade is caught on something. He struggles against it, trying to focus his eyes through the haze. They widen when they see a familiar golden armor holding back his blade
The Lingering Will, Terra's lost armor, pushes back against Xehanort's blade, igniting sparks from the grinding metal. Xehanort leaps back and the group takes in what just occurred. Aqua and Ven recognize the armor
Xehanort grits his teeth as the Lingering Will walks closer to him
Xehanort readies his blade once again and the Will transforms its Keyblade into a whip. It throws it forward, grabbing Xehanort's Keyblade and tightening its grip. Xehanort struggles against its pull before the Lingering Will swings him into the air. Xehanort releases the Keyblade from his hand and, spiraling in the air, aims his body toward the Lingering Will. The armor reins in the whip and changes its Keyblade into a gigantic cannon. It clicks into place and spins, gathering energy, blasting Xehanort back with a giant beam. Xehanort shouts but survives, summoning his Keyblade. The Will runs toward him, reverting its Keyblade again, and leaps up at Xehanort, attempting to strike, but is knocked back at every turn. It lurches forward with a physical punch, but Xehanort leaps away in time. The Will pushes forth in the air, attacking again with its Keyblade as Ven watches
Ventus moves to help him, but Aqua holds him back
She turns, directing his attention
Behind them, a multitude of flying Heartless approach from the sky, while even more storm in through the crevice they left behind. The group steels themselves and the ground quakes, a great pool of darkness opening up from the center of the field, where a Demon Tide snakes its way through. Sora summons his Keyblade as Aqua and Ventus rush ahead of him
The Demon Tide whirls before them as the valley is quickly overrun by Heartless, Nobodies and Unversed. The swirling mass of Shadows uses its ability to swim through the ground to fight against Sora, Donald and Goofy. Thought they manage to knock a great number of Shadows from the snake of an enemy, its size was not letting up. After a strong beating, it slams into the center of the field, darkness pooling out in all directions, before the Demon Tide resurges as a glowing orange core from within equally orange tendrils. A large dark wind swirls around the orb becoming a tornado of Heartless as the tendril retreat into the ground. Spinning faster, the tornado sweeps over the land, striking Sora and the others. After a couple successful strikes from the Keyblade, the whirlwind dies down slowly and the core turns purple. The core then shoots out of the whirlwind toward the group sinking into the ground. The Demon Tide releases several more cores in succession in an attempt to strike down the trio, with more bouncing out of the ground alone, to the point of almost overwhelming them. Once the Demon Tide had exhausted its source of dark cores, the whirlwind returns to full power
Sora leaps on top of Goofy, balancing on his shield, before Goofy pushes off from the ground. With both of them in the air, Sora swings Goofy around
Using the momentum of the swing, Sora slams Goofy toward the Demon Tide, where he strikes it full force with his shield. The wind dies down as the core eminates a black aura and the Heartless caught up in the wind fall to the ground
Seemingly from out of thin air, the core stretches into its snake-like form gathering even more Shadow Heartless and spinning at a faster, more enraged pace
The Heartless in the air, acting of their own accord, are gradually pulled into the swirling storm of the Demon Tide. The snake-like mass bursts forth and snatches up more Heartless and Nobodies that are on the ground, including a Rock Troll that was facing down Riku and Mickey. Multiple Demon Tides combine their efforts until the cyclone towers over the group, an endless cancerous darkness
The sight, while overwhelming and terrifying as it once was, fills Sora with determination
He rushes forward
A Demon Tide bursts from the cyclone toward him, but he knocks the core away with his Keyblade and continues his assault. He leaps into the air just meters from more encroaching Demon Tides, almost reaching the cyclone, when a flash of light fills his vision as he raises his Keyblade. Sora shields his eyes until they adjust to the light, when he sees a boy with curly silver hair and a red scarf. The boy turns to face him, smiling kindly through his blue eyes
Sora is released from the light, landing back on the ground as a spectacle occurs around them. Keyblades from across time and space fly through the air, sailing over each and every one of them. They fly along a guided path past Sora, who gathers speed, before jumping atop the wave of blades. The wave wraps around the cyclone, Sora riding past the rocky cliffs, until he sails into the eye of the storm. Inside the massive maelstrom two Demon Tides slam toward him, but they are quickly dispelled by five more Keyblades that spin around Sora
The wave of Keyblades glow in unison, and the five surrounding Sora assemble ahead, projecting the image of a five-pointed star. It shines brightly, dispersing into thousands of smaller stars, twinkling down on him. He holds a hand over his heart, hearing their call
He sails up to the pinnacle of the storm and lets loose a power thousand- fold. Shining golden Keyblades of all shapes and sizes and colors belonging to this mysterious legion release into the maelstrom, fighting off the tide of Heartless in a seemingly endless wave
They sail further into the dark whirling mass to the enormous orange core and continue their assault. The core throws all it has toward them, but is unable to fight against the torrent of incalculable Keyblades and the storm grows weaker until the sky returns to view. The outer layers of the core sparkle in a dazzling explosion
He cartwheels in the air, holding out his hands as the same five-pointed star appears before him
He brings his Keyblade back to release the final blow as stars and blade whirl around him. The other guardians of light watch in awe from below, Donald leaping into the air in celebration and Kairi holding her hands over her heart. The swirling arrow of light gathers energy and Sora thrusts his Keyblade forward in a gleaming shot, striking cleanly through the orb of darkness suspended above the ground. Electricity crackles around it as the core shrinks into itself before bursting in a fantastic explosion of light. Sora lands back on the ground, looking up at the sky, where the immense multitude of Keyblades spin in the air. They close in on themselves into a golden orb, before releasing their light in a spherical shattering of sparkles. Sora smiles
Sora turns at the sound of his friend's voice to see his friends rush over to him
Kairi and Axel marvel at the sight before Kairi sees a figure moving through the haze
The figure carries a sword over his shoulder
Riku is surprised to see...himself walking toward them. He grits his teeth at the sight of Dark Riku, who chuckles evilly, no longer wearing the cloak
Dark Riku laughs
He raises the Soul Eater
He pulses with darkness and a gigantic dark figure emerges from him, peering down at them behind glowing yellow eyes. It towers over them, reaching out with its big great arms, tongues of dark flame licking its entire body
Xigbar appears from within the darkness behind Dark Riku and smiles, Aqua and Ventus recognizing his face
The bald head of Master Xehanort is clear from the towering figure of darkness. Xigbar turns, placing a hand on Dark Riku's shoulder
Xigbar walks back into the darkness and Dark Riku gives a small laugh before coursing with raw energy. The dark figure of Master Xehanort leering over them covers them with darkness as Demon Towers emerge, surrounding them. Dark Riku fades away as the sky turns a deep purple
The group summons their weapons and the first Demon Tower heads straight for Sora. He slices through it as Shadows rain down from the purple clouds above. Riku strikes one down as the Heartless numbers grow, splitting the group up. Riku finds his back to Mickey's
Ventus strikes down a Shadow from behind Aqua
The group forms a circle with the Shadows encroaching around them. Mickey assesses the situation as Donald strikes a Heartless down behind him and more fall around them. Sadness comes to the king's face as he makes his decision, raising his Star Cluster Keyblade high. Riku grasps Mickey's Keyblade much to his surprise. He looks up at Riku, who shakes his head
As the Heartless horde grows thicker around them, Goofy knocks another back while Sora blocks an attacking one with his Keyblade. Ventus and Aqua show signs of concern and Axel takes one down with his Flame Liberator Keyblade. Mickey lowers the blade sadly and Aqua takes out another nearing Heartless
She spins and defeats another Shadow
Kairi strikes one down
Axel takes one out
Knocking a few more away, he swings the Keyblade over his shoulder as more keep falling from the sky
A large group of Shadows form a squirming mass, rising up before them
Sora grits his teeth as the mass of Shadows hones in on them. Suddenly, the clouds part as a light shoots through the sky, landing amidst the horde of Heartless. They shield their eyes from the massive burst of light and wind, eliminating a large number of Heartless surrounding them. Through the dying of the light, they make out a tall figure dressed in blue
The sorcerer facing the Heartless opens his eyes with a glare. Magic erupts from his fingertips and he closes his hands together. Raising them high, he shields the group with massive walls of magic between them and the Heartless, and summons a massive tunnel to guide them further through the Keyblade Graveyard
Donald and Goofy exchange a nod, rushing behind Yen Sid and raising their weapons
They nod to him
Sora swallows his fear
As the tunnel fades, Yen Sid sends out another wave of magic, reopening it again
The Seven Guardians of Light nod to the sorcerer and run through the tunnel. They step out onto the fated battlegrounds, where innumerous Keyblades lay where their masters fell. Barely a sound is heard as they step toward the center of the crossroads. Looking ahead, the Real Organi- zation XIII has come to play. They step forward, once again cloaked, in the shape of a 'V' with Master Xehanort as its apex until meeting them at the crossroads
He smiles darkly through his yellow eyes and summons his Keyblade
He raises his blade-with-no-name above his head, grasping the hilt with both hands
He turns the blade to face downward, gathering energy in its teeth, and shoves it into the ground. Dark fire erupts from the earth in a similar 'V' shape before the XIII. Lines appear on the ground in peculiar angles, almost like a blueprint and the earth quakes. Keyblades fall from their dusty graves as giant pillars of rock and stone emerge from the ground, etched with markings and symbols long forgotten. The pillars and archways surround the Seven Guardians as another rises from beneath the twelve cloaks, raising them up as silhouettes against the clouded sun. Master Xehanort is perched upon a growing mountain behind them. The Guardians of Light scan their surroundings, a labyrinth bearing the name The Skein of Severance
They nod and run ahead as Master Xehanort smiles to himself, light and darkness clashing at last. Sora crosses the Trail of Valediction and finds Riku fighting Xigbar, Dark Riku, and Ansem. Riku and his dark doppelgnger clash blades while Ansem watches them. They struggle for a moment, metal against metal, before Riku pushes him back and knocks the Soul Eater away. He spins in attempt to strike Dark Riku, but he dodges backwards. Xigbar leaps into the air behind him, almost catching Riku off-guard and aims his arrowguns at Riku. Riku dodge rolls to the side just in time as a number of pink light arrows shoot into the ground. Xigbar lands on the ground and he and Dark Riku face Riku down just as Sora runs in
Sora summons his Keyblade and they nod to each other
Ansem teleports near Sora as Riku heads toward Dark Riku
Ansem summons a protective barrier as he floats in the air. Sora dodges to avoid the piercing laser beams. Once the barrier falls, Sora attacks Ansem, who summons a group of dark orbs around him. They aim at Sora and the lasers hit their target
Xigbar reloads his arrowguns as Dark Riku shoots a Dark Firaga spell at Riku. Keeping Riku distracted, he hangs upside down in the air and aims his arrows toward him, nearly missing as Riku knocks Dark Riku down. Ansem lands softly on the ground, holding his arms to his chest, before expelling a great wave of darkness that courses through the ground, scaling the walls of the labyrinth. He rises back into the air without a word
Riku rushes toward him, leaping upward
Dark Riku leaps up alongside him and kicks him in the face. He falls to the ground, his Keyblade clattering against the hard surface. Ansem turns and smirks, vanishing away as Sora runs over to his friend
Xigbar cocks his arrowgun, pointing it directly at Riku. It catches Sora's eye and he is able to deflect the light arrows with his Keyblade, covering the fallen Riku. He glares at Xigbar, who smiles back at him, placing his right arrowgun cockily on his shoulder
Dark Riku walks up next to him and Riku gets to his feet again, picking up his weapon. Xigbar and Dark Riku go after the obvious weaker target, Riku, while Sora attacks the teleporting freeshooter from his spot in the air
Xigbar teleports away and Dark Riku sends a cascade of energy bolts across the ground. Sora dodges most of them before tag-teaming with Riku. Dark Riku leaps over the battlefield, sticking his sword into the ground. With each leap, the energy from the sword jumps from the ground and hones in on Sora and Riku. They attempt to catch him, but he is fast and unpredictable
While Sora and Riku take on Dark Riku, Xigbar teleports to the center of the field, enveloped by a dark aura. He combines his arrowguns into one large bow and aims it at the sky. The energy arrow flies into the air and a dark rift opens. Sora and Riku attempt to deflect the dark arrow storm that rains down from the rift, but there are simply too many of them. Sora forces Xigbar to stop the storm of arrows by a quick blow to the head just as Riku takes down his dark doppelganger
Darkness rises from his body as if saying a final goodbye. Dark Riku hunches over, defeated. He looks down at the traces of darkness on his own hand
He clenches his fist
The Riku Replica floats out of Riku's body, glowing with an ethereal light. He places a hand on Riku's shoulder
The Riku Replica flies straight toward Dark Riku's body, grabbing onto his heart. With a final scream, Dark Riku falls comatose, the black cloak returning to his body as his last vestiges of darkness seep out
He sails into the replica's body, plucking Dark Riku's heart from inside it. He floats out of the dark eruption, carrying the lifeless body of Dark Riku. The face of the replica changes to bare white, like a mannequin, and it sinks to the ground before Riku
He turns back to Riku
The Riku Replica remembers his promise with Namin and smiles
The two replicas burst into a glowing conflagration, light and dark flames twisting on each other and floating into the sky
Darkness leeches off of him rising to the heavens like a foul stench. Xigbar falls to his knees with a weak smile
He looks down at the arrowguns in his hand
He smiles cunningly
Xigbar stabs his arrowgun into the ground and pushes on it with his upper body, helping him to stand
He wobbles backwards into a corridor of darkness, leaving his arrowguns behind and reappears on the top of the south wall. He smirks at Sora and Riku down on the ground, stepping backwards on the ledge. Sora reaches out his hand helplessly as Xigbar falls back off the ledge. They stand there stunned and the arrowguns fade away. The last of darkness that covered the field gradually ebbs away as Riku shows Sora the empty replica
Riku nods
He looks over at Sora
They nod to each other and Riku leaves. In another open area of the labyrinth, Mickey whirls his head around, scanning for his foes. Luxord and Larxene teleport in on either side of him. They both smirk, tossing their knives and cards at him, but he leaps into the air. Marluxia jumps up behind the king, raising his scythe. With a swift slice forward, Marluxia's petals flurrying in the air, Mickey somersaults backwards, landing safely on the ground. He faces Xemnas and the other three appear between them
Mickey turns, seeing Sora run toward him, Keyblade slung over his shoulder
Seeing his arrival, Xemnas rises into the air, conjuring energy in his fists. He slams them together and with a flash of light, surrounds himself in black thorns that snake out around the field, encircling the group
Larxene leaps towards them with a vicious cackle, sending bolts of bright lightning crackling into the ground. Mickey goes after Luxord while Marluxia paces around the scene. At a standoff, Xemnas smiles down at them, holding out his hand. He releases a gray wind with black and white thorns in Luxord's direction. Power surges through Luxord, and Xemnas retracts his thorns from the battlefield. He smirks, vanishing away
Luxord walks up to Sora and Mickey with a cackle. He holds up a card, revealing four more cards with a flourish, which give off a red hue
He scatters his cards in all directions. Surrounding the battlefield, the cards grow to human-size and the Gambler of Fate sneakily pulls another card between two fingers
Luxord tosses the card and Mickey jumps in front of Sora, knocking the card back. Its face is marked with an X. Luxord smiles as the card freezes in midair, engaging a gravity trap which pulls Mickey inside. Mickey appears on the face of the card surrounded by pink and black thorns. The card flies back to Luxord, who catches it
Luxord motions with his hand and the jumbo cards spin clockwise around the field
He taps his chest and snaps his fingers. With a flash, he disappears before Sora's eyes. Sora looks to the cards that have stopped spinning around him. Marluxia aims his scythe at Sora and he and Larxene give a small laugh, readying their weapons
Sora dodges Larxene's first attack but isn't fast enough to avoid Marluxia's giant scythe
Sora strikes one of the large cards, but it disintegrates into smoke
Marluxia knocks Sora back and teleports away
Sora runs toward another card, but Larxene intervenes
Larxene slashes at Sora with the long knives between her fingers. He dodge- steps backwards with each strike and Marluxia appears behind him. Reacting quickly, Sora jumps just as Marluxia swings his scythe, avoiding the attack, and somersaults in the air, bringing the Keyblade down on Larxene
Sora whirls around in the direction of Luxord's voice and takes out the nearest card, revealing the gambler
Sora bashes him with the Keyblade before he flips to the back of a card and disappears in another flash
The cards swirl around the battlefield before settling into position again
Marluxia teleports near Sora, but misses with his scythe, as Sora dodge rolls away from Larxene's lightning
Sora notices one of the cards wobbling slightly and attacks, revealing Luxord again
Sora attacks Luxord until he folds, the darkness twisting off of him like the threads of fate. Luxord stumbles backwards, his cards falling to the ground. He catches himself at his knees before Sora
He smirks and draws a final card, tossing it to Sora. He catches it and looks puzzled
He winces
He starts to fade away
Sora smiles and Luxord gives a small laugh
Luxord vanishes, leaving behind a single card, which glows pink. It shines brighter as Mickey leaps out of it
Sora gives the King a thumbs-up and the two face down the remaining two foes
Marluxia motions with his hands and pulses with dark energy. Using his scythe, he spins like a wheel through the battlefield, glowing pink and black. Sora and Mickey dodge and weave his unrelenting attack while also keeping an eye on Larxene and her boundless lightning energy
Marluxia strikes the center of the field, enveloping the ground in a pool of darkness. Petals emerge and launch Sora into the air. Mickey strikes Marluxia as Larxene attempts to toss her knives at him. With the King keeping both of their attention, Sora falls from the sky, knocking the scythe from Marluxia's hands
The scythe clatters to the ground with a great ring before fading into petals on the wind as the last traces of Xehanort's influence leave Marluxia. He grunts, falling to his knees, his pink hair strewn about his face. He looks down at his hands, small traces of darkness fading from his gloved fingers
He places a hand to his face, laughing
Marluxia drops his hand, looking directly at Sora, almost smiling
He vanishes with a smile
She swipes at Sora with her knives, but he blocks. She backflips away from him and tosses her knives in an arc, leaving sparks lingering on the ground. Mickey jumps at her from behind, but she ignites pillars of lighting around her, striking him down. She cackles, turning into a bolt of lightning that zips around the battlefield. Sora leaps away from her attacks, but she is too fast, emerging only to strike at him with her electric claws
Larxene leaps high into the air, slamming down at the ground, sending bolts of lightning skyward around the arena. Having exhausted her move of desperation, Sora and Mickey face off from opposite sides of her. For all her speed, even she can't see behind her, as the two coordinate, draining the last recesses of her strength
The darkness climbs high above and away, fading into the sky from the solid figure that is Larxene. She breathes heavy through gritted teeth, looking down at herself
Her eyes turn from annoyance to something else... Regret? She looks toward Sora, with that dumb smile of his
She pauses after her outburst, sinking lower to the ground
She looks skyward
She watches the dark traces fly away from her
She scoffs, turning her nose at him
She opens an eye and peers at him, eyebrow raised. She sighs, her disposition softening. She wags a finger at him playfully
She smirks as the last vestiges of darkness wipe her away. Sora dispels his Keyblade as Mickey walks over
The nod at each other and the mouse scurries away
Sora follows the open hallway of the labyrinth, discovering a colored rune set in the stone. He steps upon it and a large wall opens in front of him
Matching the colored panels to the correct doorways, Sora makes his way to the Twist of Isolation. Aqua lands back on her feet and blocks as Terra- Xehanort swipes forward with his Keyblade. She strikes at him, but he knocks the blade away, performing his own attack, forcing her to leap backwards and away from him. She lands on one knee, looking up to see Vanitas knock Ventus back next to her. Ven grits his teeth as Vanitas lands next to Terra-Xehanort, sneering from under his black helmet
They turn to see Sora enter
He nods to each of them in turn and the battle begins
Aqua bolts toward Terra-Xehanort and strikes him, a swirl of energy shining upwards and knocking him back. Sora attacks Vanitas as Ventus tosses his Keyblade toward his darker half. It spins through the air, hitting him multiple times. Vanitas blocks with his Keyblade, aiming it at Aqua
A fireball erupts from the blade, splitting into three homing fireballs, which hit their mark. Sora rushes Terra-Xehanort while Aqua gets back up, leaving Ventus to Vanitas
Xehanort exchanges blows with Sora before teleporting away
He barrels through Sora, ferociously slicing with his Keyblade, leaving a burst of darkness in his wake. Ventus attacks Vanitas, but his image freezes
Without warning, Vanitas tears through the mirage, striking Ventus in retaliation
Vanitas leaps into the air as a large mass of Keyblades swarm over the battlefield. He lands on the flowing spiral of blades as Aqua and Xehanort square off
Vanitas sends a barrage of ice shards toward Sora and Ventus before barreling toward them. They dodge away from the attack
He surrounds himself with the Keyblades, sending volleys at Sora. Sora dodges away from them until Vanitas runs out of blades. Suddenly, Vanitas teleports above Sora, knocking him away. Terra-Xehanort, on the offensive, pummels Aqua with strike after strike, but with each she dodges. At the crest of his attack, he sends an X-shaped projectile at her, but Ventus intercepts, reflecting it toward Vanitas and knocking him to the ground
Darkness is drawn from Vanitas as poison is drawn from a wound, his connection to Xehanort severed. Cracks form in his helmet and shards of black glass fall revealing dark, spiky hair and a familiar face. Sora gasps and Vanitas stares at him through a yellow eye
He smiles
Ventus holds out an arm in front of Sora
He points to himself, and then to Vanitas
Vanitas begins to fade
They stare at each other, unbent for a moment
His body begins to break apart, but he smiles to himself
The field erupts with swirling energy and Xehanort's dark shadow emerges from behind him
The Dark Figure slams into the ground, knocking Sora and Ventus off- balance, as the wind around them starts to blow. It spins faster around the arena, pulling Aqua and the others into the center, struggling against the whipping air as numerous bolts of lightning strike around them
Unable to escape, the Dark Figure slashes at them with his claws. Aqua and Ventus are sent flying into the lightning and the Dark Figure teleports above Sora, slamming him down into the ground. The Dark Figure phases into the ground, creating a pool of darkness as Sora gets back to his feet. Out of the ground emerge purple spikes before the Dark Figure shoots back up, knocking Ventus off kilter. Individually, they attempt to distract Xehanort while another moves in for a strike. From his Keyblade, he emits dark projectiles which grow in number, but are sent back toward him with a powerful Reflega spell
Xehanort's darkness is wrenched away from him, and he falls to the ground. Aqua and Ventus dispel their Keyblades, as does Sora
They run past Sora and kneel over him, pulling him up to a kneeled position
Terra grunts in pain
Terra clutches his head, burying his fingers in his white hair
Suddenly, Terra screams and chains of darkness ensnare Ventus, Aqua and Sora, suspending them in the air
They struggle against the chains as Terra and Xehanort vie for control
Terra stands, smiling from under his hand
He reaches out and swings Aqua and Ven around
He whips them up and down, cackling while Sora watches helplessly
Xehanort ignores him, continuing to toss the two around
Xehanort laughs evilly, Aqua and Ven having gone silent. He raises them up in front of him. They hardly move a muscle
The chains rattle as he lifts the two of them higher, prepared to drop them
Xehanort smiles and tears fall from Ven's eyes
Xehanort releases them and the two sink toward the ground, directed by the mad conductor's own arms. From behind Xehanort, the Dark Figure flies ahead, catching both Ventus and Aqua, and clutching the chains in its fist. It whirls to face Xehanort, who looks behind him, finding himself absent a shadow. He glares at the Dark Figure, who crushes the chains in its fist. They shatter around Sora, who drops to the ground as the Figure sets Aqua and Ven down gently
It looks over at Xehanort
Xehanort attempts to summon his Keyblade, but a slap from behind distracts him, as the Dark Figure suddenly appears next to him, grabbing him by the face. Xehanort grabs at its great hand, attempting to claw it off of him. The Dark Figure reaches for the bandages covering its toothed mouth. With some effort, it tears them apart, freeing its jaw. It releases an anticipated exhale and attempts to speak
It holds Xehanort out in front of him by his head, where he struggles. The Dark Figure repeats his speech
From between its fingers, Xehanort's eye widens
The heart-shaped hole in the center of the Dark Figure sparks with light, signaling Sora to summon his Keyblade. He aims it at Xehanort
A beam of light erupts from the Keyblade, striking Xehanort fully in the back as the Dark Figure releases his grip on him. The heart inside bursts from its chest and the Dark Figure dissolves as the heart flies into Terra's body. Light spreads out in waves in all directions, growing brighter. Terra lands on his feet, finally free of Xehanort's control. He looks down at his hands, almost in disbelief. He turns, running back to Aqua and Ventus
Aqua sits up as Terra grabs Ven's body
He smiles warmly at her
She begins to cry and Ven stirs, looking up at him
Tears well up in his eyes
The three of them nestle closely, crying together
Sora smiles at the three friends reunited
They stand and Sora turns to go
He steps forward, but stumbles, and Sora turns back around
Terra nods
Sora continues through the labyrinth. Meanwhile, Kairi and Axel are fighting Sax and a smaller figure who remains hooded. They swing at Kairi, their Keyblades clashing. Kairi dodges backwards, but the figure pursues her, knocking her away. The figure continues the pursuit when Axel rushes them, blocking with his Keyblade. He knocks them away, when Sax rushes him, their weapons clashing against each other. A blue burst of energy beneath their standoff forces Axel to leap away
Sora runs in
Axel and Kairi smile at his arrival as the hooded figure takes a running leap at Axel. Their blades clash, knocking them both back. Axel lands on his feet next to Sora and Kairi
They face down their foes
Sax raises his Claymore, glowing a bright blue, entering a berserk state. He hovers in the air and slams his weapon against the ground, creating a wave of blue energy. The hooded figure, now also wielding a Claymore, follows his lead, almost copying his movements exactly. Kairi, following their movements, goes after the smaller one, while Axel strikes Sax with his Keyblade. Sora takes over, knocking Sax back, as Axel transforms his Keyblade into his red and white chakrams and flings them at Sax. The hooded enemy teleports away from Kairi and pummels Sora with a Keyblade, flinging him into the air. Switching at the apex, they slam him back down to the ground with their Claymore
Axel strikes at Sax, but he is fixed in a trance. Sax rises into the air, glowing with blue energy. His Claymore floating behind him, he flings his arms wide. Grabbing the Claymore, he swings it down toward Sora and Kairi, tossing them to the ground. The blue aura pulsing through him, he runs at the two on the ground
Axel jumps between them, seeing the great X-shaped scar on Sax's face wide open, his eyes glowing yellow and void of emotion. Axel raises his blade as Sax strikes it, knocking him back a foot. Axel falls to his knees and Sax raises his Claymore high over him. Axel scowls at the face of his former friend as Xemnas suddenly appears behind him. Axel glares at his former leader, who walks towards him
He points to his head with a smirk before leaping forward. He raises his fiery Keyblade and Xemnas catches it in his hand without flinching
A black thorn slithers from Xemnas's cloak and whips Axel back, chipping the Keyblade into disintegrating flames. Axel catches himself on his feet and energy bolts crackle around Xemnas's clenched fist. He lashes his arms out wide, leaving a trail of energy. Thorns surround the battlefield and they are surrounded by a million points of light. Out of the circular darkness, the ethereal blades strike Axel one at a time. He grunts through the pain, unable to move, as Sax, still in his berserk state, watches from behind Xemnas. Axel falls to his knees again as Xemnas conjures a single ethereal blade from the palm of his right hand and walks toward him
As he reaches Axel, the blade hums quietly
As Xemnas shoves his palm forward, a gloved hand suddenly grabs the blade, sparing Axel. Xemnas peers over at them through narrow eyes
The hooded figure speaks with the voice of a girl
He dispels his ethereal blade, looking down at her
She stands in front of Axel, who looks up at her
She aims her Keyblade at him, the teeth of the blade just inches from his face, but hesitates. She shakes off the feeling, regaining her composure for just a moment, as Sora walks up to her, lowering her weapon with his hand
She gasps at the sight of his face, emotion rushing into her, and turns her face away. He knocks Sora's hand away and strikes him with her Keyblade. He counters with his, blocking her continued strikes
She shrieks with a final blow from her Keyblade, pushing against Sora's as tears well up in his eyes
She pauses
She begins to sob, dropping the Keyblade and grabbing her head. She turns away from him in tristesse. Xemnas appears before her, peering down with disappointment
He kicks her into Sora, knocking the hood and the tears from Xion's face, revealing her black hair. With a sudden rush to Axel's head, he gasps
Xion lands on the ground and Xemnas stands over her, summoning his blade once again. Feeling a weight on his leg, he peers down to see Axel grabbing his boot
He knocks Axel's hands from his boot and steps on them for good measure
Xemnas raises the blade and points it at Xion. Axel reaches toward her helplessly and Sora begins to glow as a heart floats out of his chest. There is a twinkle in the sky before a beam of light shoots down toward Xemnas. Spotting it from the corner of his eye, he leaps away as it strikes the ground, sending up a cloud of dirt. Xemnas's blade vanishes as he catches himself. A figure in the haze stands, facing Xemnas
Xemnas gasps at the sound of his voice, but stands firm
Axel and Xion look up to see the figure remove his hood and reveal the spiky blond hair of Roxas. Axel's eyes widen into a smile
Roxas turns his head toward Axel, reciprocating the smile
He stares down Xemnas as Axel and Xion return to their feet
He points the Oblivion Keyblade at Xemnas
Sora and Kairi join them
Roxas nods back to him
He walks forward, and vanishes, catching them off-guard. He reappears behind Kairi and grabs her by the arm
She reaches for him
He points at Sora, holding Kairi's arm behind her head, her Keyblade still in her hand
Sora runs toward Xemnas, but he disappears into a corridor of darkness and Sax takes his place. Roxas runs up to Sora and they nod at each other. Axel stands, holding his arm and wincing. Xion holds an arm up in front of him
She nods at him, smiling, and joins Roxas and Sora
Sax surrounds himself with several Claymores and slams them into the ground, creating blue shockwaves, that knock the three of them away from him
Roxas raises his Keyblades in front of him, forming a spiral and launching a beam of light toward Sax. He falls to the ground, knocked from his berserk state
Roxas and Xion exchange blows against him as Sora rushes forward. Sax lurches into the air, impervious to the pillars of light generated by Xion, and releases a shockwave through the air, sending Sora flying. Roxas lunges at Sax with his dual Keyblades just as Sax tosses a Claymore in Sora's direction. Rolling out of harm's way, Sora raises the Keyblade, sending a bolt of lightning, which strikes Sax down
The darkness of Xehanort flees into the sky as shadows flee from moonlight. Sax plants his glowing Claymore into the ground, struggling to stand. The Claymore bursts into light blue flames which quickly extinguish, sending him to the rocky floor. He breathes heavily as Axel runs to him, intense concern on his face
Axel forces himself not to cry
Axel touches his face, surprised at the comment
He grunts, clutching his side, his blue hair hanging in his face. Axel runs to him
Axel kneels beside him
He looks over at Roxas and Xion, sadness on their faces
He tries to stand, but falls and Axel catches him. He begins to fade in Axel's arms
He closes his eyes and is no more. Axel looks over to them and stands as Sora runs to him
Axel crosses his arms as Sora smiles at Roxas and Xion
Sora leaves the three of them together
He turns to see Roxas next to him, and smiles. The two of them hear sobbing and focus their attention on Xion. Her arms folded, tears streaming from her eyes. Roxas runs up to her, concern on his face, and Axel scratches his head
Roxas smiles, looking back at him, and Xion does the same. Axel, unable to hold it in any longer, rushes the two of them into a warm embrace. The three of them cry tears of happiness in each other's arms. Sora proceeds further through the labyrinth
He reaches the Tower of Endings
He runs up to them
The ground shifts ahead, casting dirt into the air on a strong wind. Young Xehanort, Ansem and Xemnas appear ahead, walking toward them as Master Xehanort watches from a high tower of rock
He runs ahead of Riku, readying his Keyblade
Xemnas smirks, only fueling Sora's anger. Master Xehanort chuckles
He waves an arm with a wild glint in his eye. Out of thin air, nine Keyblades, identical to his unnamed weapon, hover around him
Riku steps forward
Master Xehanort smiles
Ansem, Xemnas, and Young Xehanort ready themselves for battle
Mickey and Riku charge in as Young Xehanort transforms his Keyblade into a whip. Xemnas hangs back as Ansem summons a group of orbs that shoot lasers at Mickey. The King dodges as Young Xehanort goes after Riku, who uses a Dark Firaga spell, which scatters, homing in on the three foes. Several hit their target, before Young Xehanort blocks the rest. The three of them reel back and teleport in unison. Master Xehanort waves his hand and a snake-like swarm of fallen Keyblades flies through the battlefield, sending up dirt into the air. The Keyblades separate Sora from Mickey and Riku
Throughout the swirling vortex around him, the swarm of blades attempt to strike Sora, but he dodges their attacks. Young Xehanort appears in the fray, casting a blue symbol onto the ground
He hits Sora with his long whip, causing his vision to cloud, and launches him in the air. Xemnas spins in, bashing him with his ethereal blades like spokes of a wheel. Ansem cackles loudly from amidst the area, erupting in a burst of dark tendrils
The storm of Keyblades breaks through once again walloping Sora before the haze clears and he is reunited with Riku and Mickey. Young Xehanort shoots icicles at Sora as Xemnas strikes Mickey with his blades. Riku attempts an attack on Ansem, but he hovers far above the ground
Xemnas releases four energy balls that hit the ground around Sora and enlarge, knocking him into the air. Ansem glows with a red aura
Sora, Riku and Mickey feel a tug as they are pulled closer to Ansem as the red aura glows brighter. When they are within range, tendrils of darkness explode from his body
A protective barrier erupts around Ansem and he hovers menacingly near Sora, who is forced to dodge roll away. Mickey attacks Xemnas while Young Xehanort thrashes Riku with his whip. Ansem surrounds himself with dark mines, which crackle with red electricity
A dark shadow follows Sora along the ground and at Ansem's command a giant claw emerges, missing Sora by a spiky hair. Mickey keeps Young Xehanort at bay while Riku rushes Ansem until the usuper falls
The final bell has rung for the self-proclaimed Seeker of Darkness. He clutches his chest as it is expunged from him. He hunches over, staring at his gloved hand, watching the small traces of darkness flicker away. Riku walks closer
He peers over at Sora
He begins to fade
He disappears into the aether. Sora looks over to Riku, who nods, and the battle continues. Xemnas hovers in a circular motion around Sora, conjuring up spheres of energy, which unleash a barrage of lasers that hone in on Sora. He manages to deflect most, but not all. Mickey aims a burst of light magic from his key at Xemnas, stopping his attack, as Young Xehanort strikes Riku with his whip. Electricity crackles in the palms of Xemnas's hands and he kicks Mickey in retaliation. Sora bashes him with his Keyblade, but cuts through him like air, and the image of Xemnas freezes. Suddenly, he spins toward Sora from his right, catching him off-guard. Leaving Young Xehanort for a moment, Riku changes his target to Xemnas and joins Mickey in a dual attack. Whirling through the air, they pummel the Superior of the In-Between with continuous spinning attacks
The great swirl of darkness pierces the sky above the Organization's Superior. He looks down at his hands, the darkness being licked clean off of them
He turns away from them
Xemnas smiles softly as he begins to fade
Xemnas vanishes from this world and they resume the battle with Young Xehanort
He raises his arms, summoning diamond-shaped shards of ice which fly through the air towards Sora. Mickey attempts to intercept but Xehanort ensnares him with his whip. Sora quickly blocks the ice shards with his Keyblade as Riku knocks Xehanort back, freeing Mickey. With his associates down, the 3-on-1 struggle with Young Xehanort, even with his powers over time, is brief
The darkness lifts off of Young Xehanort as he falls to his knees. He laughs
Xehanort stands back up
Sora is stunned
Young Xehanort begins to fade away
He vanishes to the winds before he can finish, leaving an unsettling silence. Three additional keys join the nine replicas encircling Master Xehanort
He summons his Keyblade, raising it high. A blue orb appears from its tip, which he then launches into the clouded sky. The world ripples and a light peeks through the clouds, shining down on him
The clouds swirl and part slowly. Sora gasps as Kairi floats up beside Master Xehanort, who laughs softly
Sora begins to run toward the pillar of rock
Sora leaps onto the side of the pillar as Kairi's comatose body hovers in front of Master Xehanort. He reaches back with his blade and bludgeons her full on the back in one swift stroke. She glows pink and her form shatters, disappearing in a fracture of light
Unable to blink, Sora races atop the pillar swinging his Keyblade at Master Xehanort, who blocks with his own
Master Xehanort knocks him back and Mickey and Riku watch as Sora tumbles to the ground behind them. Tears fall from his eyes as he looks back up to Master Xehanort from the position on his knees
Riku rushes up the pillar just as Sora had done, but is held back by the thirteenth replica Keyblade which materializes in front of Master Xehanort and proceeds to swing him away as well. Riku screams, falling back down the pillar
Mickey jumps to the top of the pillar and aims his Keyblade at Master Xehanort
Master Xehanort holds his hand out in front of him conjuring a dark wind. With magical runes surrounding them, the two spells collide, with Xehanort's sphere of stopped time growing to encompass Mickey and Riku. The blast of wind ripples through Sora's hair as he sees his friends frozen in place
Master Xehanort smirks as Sora moves to pursue him, but with only a few steps taken, is surprised by the replica Keyblade appearing behind him. It knocks him down as Master Xehanort turns toward the others
Master Xehanort rises into the air with the thirteenth key rejoining the others. They float around him as the great yellow moon of Kingdom Hearts shines in the sky. He basks in its glow, the culmination of his life's work now in the eleventh hour. He raises his Keyblade, which glows and becomes a new weapon made of two crossed keys, the Chi-blade. He marvels at its brilliance
Sora watches from below, unable to stop him
He aims the Chi-blade at Kingdom Hearts and a violet beam erupts from the blade. It strikes the moon and wreathes it in dark flame, eventually turning it a deep shade of purple. The horizon turns a shade of pink and rays of light peek out from behind Kingdom Hearts. Sora, still on his knees, feels crestfallen. Donald and Goofy arrive, placing hands of comfort on his back
Goofy grabs him by the waist and helps him stand up
They smile at him
Sora wipes the tears from his eyes
He looks down
They look over, seeing Roxas, Axel, and Xion enter along with Terra, Aqua, and Ventus
Ventus and Roxas exchange a look on their identical faces. Terra and Aqua look up
She looks down, unsure, along with Sora. There is a flash signaling the end of the time spell and Mickey hops down to them followed by Riku
Mickey nods
Aqua starts to walk towards him
Mickey looks concerned, but Sora nods to him. The rest of them nod in return and Mickey concedes
Sora walks forward, soon joined by Donald and Goofy
Donald shushes him and the others watch them go. Donald holds out a hand and Goofy places his on top, then Sora following him
Riku smiles
They ready their weapons as Master Xehanort hovers above
She walks forward and he turns to her
She gives him a small smile
She places a hand on her heart. Surprised and comforted, he smiles back
They nod and the Guardians of Light assemble. The Keyblade wielders aim their keys toward Master Xehanort, the teeth of them glowing. Sora spins his Keyblade in a large arc before twisting it in his hand and aiming it as well
They each project a beam toward Kingdom Hearts, eight spots creating a hole in the darkness of the moon from which light eminates. Just as Master Xehanort turns around, he is struck in the heart by Sora
A pink spiked sphere emerges from his chest, a portal to trap him. Sora, Donald and Goofy become a sphere of light which floats up to the portal before light envelops Kingdom Hearts. As the brightness subsides, Sora opens his eyes, the sound of waves filling his ears
They look around at a stunning city of white buildings. Hanging cable cars run overhead as the sea breeze wafts through the ubiquitous windmills scattered through the cityscape. Out over the sea are similar looking architecture, each connected by the cable car system. The sky is a bright blue and the sun warm and inviting
They make their way into town from the waterscape, passing beneath a decorative metal arch onto a blue cobblestone street. They look around, but see no signs of other people
Xehanort walks through the town off to Sora's left, just catching his eye. He turns, seeing no one, as Xehanort has reappeared walking behind him. Seeing him this time, he runs toward him
He runs after the old man, who continues walking obliviously. Sora sees Master Xehanort staring at him from the middle of a stairway and stops
Donald and Goofy catch up to Sora, who looks back to the previous Xehanort, which is now staring at him exactly as the other. Upon closer inspection, the image of Xehanort flickers
The Xehanort on the stairs flickers as well before changing form entirely to a robed figure with a large horned mask. The second Xehanort does the same, unsettling Donald. The Replica Xehanorts float into the air, suddenly becoming three, and then four
Five. Six becomes eight. Eight becomes twelve. The masked Replicas surround them and they summon their weapons
They each teleport away, much to their confusion, and they dispel their weapons again. Wandering further through the town, the mysterious adversaries engage them in battle. Each Replica wields one of the Organization XIII's member's weapons and the trio work quickly to beat them back. The twelve villains rise high into the air, surrounding the mountain's central citadel. Runes appear between them and the citadel and soon lines and other cryptic symbols black out the sky within a large arcane circle. With the city locked in darkness, Sora, Donald and Goofy evade the lasers that descend throughout the town. With the hellstorm to cover them, the twelve pursue Sora together. One Replica knocks him skyward and a group attack forces him to block not a moment too soon. The 360 degree attack leaves them beaten down. They struggle to catch their breath
Sora looks up and sees the old man
He looks straight at them, smirking
One of the fallen Replicas hovers lifelessly in the air, its legs and arms limp. Its body reeks with darkness, turning black, and vanishes into an ashen sphere of black and white. The rest follow in turn. Xehanort stands tall as the power from the twelve Replicas enters his body
He spreads his arms wide, lifting off the ground. He trembles, giving off a dark aura, before exploding into a wind of black and white. The winds encircle him like ribbons and a transformation occurs. As the wind dies down, Master Xehanort is now covered head to toe in armor. From sharp silver and red gauntlets to black pointed sabatons to a giant mask in the shape of a ram's head. Master Xehanort summons his Keyblade and beckons them forth
Master Xehanort waves his hand and the city begins to shift. The earth gives a gigantic heave and the hills bend upwards, folding over the sky. With another flourish and the turning of his fist, the gravity slides to the left as the three of them land on the side of a building
Slicing his arm through the air, Master Xehanort shifts the gravity once again, sliding the three of them off the physical plane as the city twists around them. They eventually land, bathed in just the glow of the city, as Xehanort floats above them
Xehanort conjures green fireballs that surround Sora. Without warning, they converge and warp Sora close to Master Xehanort, who claws at him, destroying a sign perched upon the vertical ground
Continuously swinging, he strikes Sora with his Keyblade before knocking him down. Aiming his blade, several fireballs erupt from the weapon, scattering over the area, but Sora blocks them along with Goofy
He swings the Keyblade in wide arcs, a trail of black and red following with each blow. Slamming Sora toward a cobblestone wall, he pushes off of it, returning the attack. Back on solid ground, Xehanort raises a hand and turns his fist again, forcing the walls to slide again. Forming a sphere with his gauntlets, he turns them clockwise until they lose their footing and fall into the water. Breathing still beneath the sea, they face Xehanort in front of an upside down tower. Though his ears are muffled, he can still hear the sound of the old man's cackle
Sora and Donald send multiple various spells at Master Xehanort, while also dodging the underwater fireballs he sends toward them. Even below the waves, his strikes are swift and furious
Master Xehanort erects four pillars of fire that encircle Sora and gets in two strong strikes. The pillars close in on Sora, but he squeezes through them in time to avoid their twisting transformation into a fiery tornado. The vortex releases large spurts of fireballs, which Sora and Donald counter with Sea-Blizzaga while Goofy uses his shield as cover. The struggle continues until Master Xehanort teleports away. After a few moments of silence, the trio swim upwards until they breach the water's surface, hopping onto the cracked roof of a building. Street lamps and rubble bob in the water around them. They look up towards the citadel, finding Master Xehanort peering down at them from his place in the air. Master Xehanort You've performed admirably. (Sora summons his Keyblade again and jumps across the broken rooftops toward Xehanort. The Master shoves his hand out just as Sora closes in on him and motions upward, casting him into another pillar of flame
When the fire subsides, Sora does a somersault in the air, striking him with the Keyblade. He teleports away, spraying Sora with more fireballs. Sora dodges aside in midair as Xehanort's left hand glows blue. He sails toward Sora at a rapid pace and grabs him by the face
Sora struggles against his strong grip, red electricity crackling around the Master's fierce claw. His balance is shaken as Xehanort swings him toward the ground with a crash. Regaining himself, the two fly around the city, circling over the splintered streets. Master Xehanort's left hand glows a bright red and he spirals upward, summoning an enormous pillar of fire which sends ripples through the twisted town's structure. As Sora ducks behind a mirrored building, more pillars appear, creating thick cracks in the white stone of the city. Bullets of fire spurt out from the pillars, ebbing and flowing around the various edifices of the mountain. At rapid flight speed, Master Xehanort weaves through the pillars, attempting to knock Sora into the path of the fire
The pillar dissolves into a gravity well that pulls him inside, engulfing him in flames. With a loud grunt, Master Xehanort detonates the gravity well with a gigantic explosion, further damaging the city. Sora manages to escape the destruction, flying back up to Master Xehanort's level. They exchange dodges and blows with their Keyblades until...
Master Xehanort drops his Keyblade, stumbling back on the cobblestones. The blade disappears and he clutches his chest, finding his armor full of cracks. They glow brighter until the armor shatters around him, forcing him to his knees. He stares at Sora, Donald, and Goofy for a moment before giving a smirk, escaping through a corridor of darkness. The trio dispel their weapons with uncertain confusion as Sora looks up to the citadel. He turns to Donald and Goofy, and they nod. Sora leaps up through the obliterated city over the floating rubble seemingly frozen in time. Atop the large fortress, they enter underneath the spiked arches of gold to a wide platform where Master Xehanort reappears. He stares with arms folded behind his back at the boy who has caused him so much trouble. Sora summons his Keyblade
He glares, pointing his Keyblade at Xehanort
Xehanort wiggles his fingers in front of them, sparking a brilliant light. They shield their eyes as the Chi-blade appears in his hand. Sora gasps, and Donald and Goofy's eyes widen. Xehanort lifts off the ground before them, feeling the weight of the blade in his hand
He aims the blade to the heavens and the clouds grow dim, the air beginning to swirl. He lowers the blade and chuckles to himself. Donald and Goofy summon their weapons and Sora tightens his grip on the Keyblade, firmly planting his feet on the stone floor
Master Xehanort flies toward Sora, attempting to strike him with the Chi- blade. Sora dodges aside and performs a downswing with his Keyblade. Xehanort fades out only to summon a large keyhole-shaped portal and strike Sora without warning
He tosses the Chi-blade at Sora, releasing an icy chill before summoning three fireballs. He smashes them together and lets loose bolts of lightning over the battlefield. After failing to dodge some of Xehanort's attacks, Sora takes on a more defensive strategy, keeping Xehanort's attention on him, allowing Donald to cast ice and fire spells that hone in on their adversary. Soon, Master Xehanort rises over the citadel, too far out of reach. He raises his arms high summoning a magic circle beneath their feet. It rises into the air, bringing Sora and company with it
He aims the Chi-blade into the sky, releasing a beam of light to a point in the clouds. He laughs as the clouds part, revealing the shining Kingdom Hearts behind it. The great heart-shaped moon sends a laugh from the belly of the old man, his plans coming to fruition
Master Xehanort whirls around to face them, sending a barrage of dark fireballs in their direction. Sora manages to dodge one, but it swings around and hits its mark regardless. Xehanort begins a series of teleporting through keyholes, but Sora counters with his Keyblade. After the succession of attacks hampers him more than helps the progression of his fight, Master Xehanort vanishes in the light of the moon. He reappears, releasing the Chi-blade from his grasp. It spins vertically over his outstretched hand
He tosses the Chi-blade high toward Kingdom Hearts, sending rays of light in all directions. They rain down over Sora, a yellow glow erupting from his body. Sora feels a tug as the light is ejected from his body and his form turns dark, his eyes glowing
Thirteen pillars of light strike the magic circle and spiral outwards as Sora dodges through them. Xehanort cackles loudly, striking him with halos of light. In the meager moments between teleportation or dodging attacks, Sora swings at Xehanort, knocking orbs of light from him. Approaching the orbs, they shine into Sora like a magnet. Sora knocks Xehanort back and spins to right himself in the air. He pulses as rage reaches the apex, surging forward leaving a trail of red light behind him. He strikes Xehanort repeatedly before leaping upwards under the moon's light. Tendrils of black seep from his body and with an intense blow, Sora sends Xehanort to the ground, causing a sonic blast. The world around them turns gray and Sora's form is restored. Dark thrones like those used by the Organization rise around the magic circle, stretching to the heavens. Xehanort bathed in darkness sits casually, almost bored, on the tallest throne
The symbol at the center of the magic circle glows red. A violet light shines from each of the thrones as dark clones of Xehanort fly toward Sora, striking in succession. Sora blocks at the start, but each clone pursues him faster and faster until pulses of light sent from the thrones knock him away. The aberrant gray sky around them undulates abnormally as an even stronger ray of light flashes from Xehanort's prime throne. The malformed sky retreats and the thrones vanish, leaving Xehanort alone beneath Kingdom Hearts. Sora aims his Keyblade towards the old man, releasing a beam of light. Master Xehanort curls his fingers as the beam strikes an invisible barrier and dissipates, bringing a smile to Xehanort's face
He raises the Chi-blade and tongues of darkness lick around Kingdom Hearts as the sky around them turns white. The three stand helpless as the moon is enveloped in darkness. Master Xehanort and the Chi-blade glow as he aims it at Sora, sending a beam down toward him. Sora blocks with his Keyblade, sending large sparks and keyholes scattering as a dark mist sprays up from the beam. Sora struggles against its power until it knocks him back. He floats in the abyss of unconsciousness, his heart hanging by a thread. It pulses from within him, calling out. The heartbeat grows stronger and two lights appear, flying into Sora's body as his chest glows. Sora opens his eyes, feeling the rush of wind around him as he continues to hold back the beam of dark light from the Chi-blade. Feeling his load a bit lighter, he looks to the right of him as Goofy helps to hold the attack back. To his left, Donald has done the same, bringing a smile to his face. With renewed determination, the three force the beam away. Stirring up the air around them, Sora aims the Keyblade toward Xehanort, the three holding on together as a large crown symbol appears at their feet. Comets of red, blue and green spiral into the teeth of the blade as the Trinity Limit sends Xehanort's dark beam into pieces, striking back against the Master once and for all. The world flashes white as Master Xehanort is sent back to the roof of the citadel. The scent of darkness wafts from him as he drops the Chi-blade. Sora, Donald and Goofy catch their breath as the old man collapses to the ground. He struggles, but is too weak to stand
Xehanort pushes against the floor to maintain eye contact with Sora
They look up, seeing an orange emanation from Kingdom Hearts. Sora gasps and Goofy turns to Donald
Xehanort struggles to speak, getting to his knees. He grasps his side with one hand and holds himself up with the other
Master Xehanort looks up at him and grabs the Chi-blade, slamming it into the ground to use as a crutch to stand
Once to his feet, he pulls the blade out of the floor. Sora finds himself without an answer
Xehanort clenches his fist
He stares at Sora heavily
Xehanort narrows an eye and Sora mimics him. Xehanort smiles softly
Goofy sees something in the sky and points
Sora looks up as, with a great shatter, a Keyhole appears. Streaks of light fly from the Keyhole forming into the shapes of Riku and King Mickey. Axel, Roxas and Xion follow and join Sora on the ground, along with Terra, Aqua and Ventus
Mickey walks up to them
Sora and Goofy nod
Sora smiles and Terra turns toward Xehanort
He starts to walk toward Xehanort but Aqua grabs his arm. He turns to her and his stare is all she needs to release her hold. Ventus joins Aqua as Terra faces down Xehanort. He exhales
Master Xehanort's yellow eyes widen
Terra shines with light and a heart floats out of his chest. The light coalesces into the form of a tall serious-looking man in a white robe, Master Eraqus. Ventus and Aqua gasp at the sight of their former master. He glows with a rich aura as Terra and Eraqus speak as one
He turns toward Sora and Riku. Xehanort raises the Chi-blade
Eraqus says nothing as Xehanort's right hand trembles. Eraqus walks up and grabs the Chi-blade, placing a hand on his friend's shoulder
In the bright study at Scala ad Caelum, the Boy in Black stares down at the remaining piece on the chessboard, the crown token gleaming in the sunlight. The Boy in White smiles
He smiles, turning to lean against the window
Xehanort and Eraqus break into laughter
Xehanort taps the crown token, wobbling the chess piece
He smiles and Eraqus grins
They chuckle beneath the tall windows. The memory brings a warm smile to Master Xehanort's face and he glances at Master Eraqus. Xehanort calmly walks over to Sora, offering him the Chi-blade
Sora pauses, but takes the blade in hand, looking back up. Xehanort folds his hands behind his back and Eraqus looks over to his three former students
The three start crying and rush over to him
Aqua and Ven embrace him as Terra approaches
Tears fill his eyes and he joins the hug. Eraqus looks down
Ventus cries
Aqua sobs and he turns to Terra
Terra nods and Ven and Aqua wipe away their tears. Xehanort glances at them momentarily before his attention is turned to his own weak knees. He struggles to stand and just before his leg gives out, Eraqus catches him
He lifts Xehanort's arm over his shoulder
Xehanort glows with the same warm aura as Eraqus, shining brighter together. As the light settles the two appears as boys again, softly chuckling in each other's company. They rise into the air, the light of Kingdom Hearts shining down upon them, becoming hearts returning home. The beacon of light dims and Mickey walks up
Sora nods, taking the Chi-blade in hand
They nod and approach Sora, creating an arc around him. Sora holds the Chi-blade with both hands and raises it skyward. He and his friends glow with a yellow shine as blue and gold wisps of energy focus themselves into the blade. A radiant orb of light erupts from the Chi-blade, sending a beam towards Kingdom Hearts. As the beam strikes, a brilliant light flows forth, bathing the world. The Chi-blade shines with an equal radiance as they stare into the light. With a flash, they return to the Keyblade Graveyard. The hovering moon has disappeared and the sky feels lighter and calmer
They nod, but Sora shakes his head, his back to them
He turns toward them
Riku clenches his fist before calmly walking over to Mickey, placing a hand on the mouse's shoulder
Sora takes out the Keyblade, shining a beam into the air. A keyhole appears, shattered into the sky, taking Sora to his destination. Later, Donald and Goofy escort King Mickey back to Disney Castle. His eyes light up when he sees Queen Minnie. He runs to her and she sheds a tear. She starts to run to him, but Pluto jumps ahead and pounces on Mickey, licking his face as Mickey giggles. Pluto barks happily when Minnie reaches him. She laughs and takes his hands in hers as Daisy approaches Donald sweetly, before giving him a reproachful look. Goofy shudders in anticipation of her outburst but she only hugs Donald instead. Jiminy Cricket pops out onto Goofy shoulder with a smile. He grabs his top hat as Goofy turns to see Yen Sid enter with Chip and Dale perched on his shoulders. Pluto jumps excitedly and the sorcerer smiles down at them. The sky flashed brightly and everyone looks up as the sky is illuminated with colorful fireworks. Meanwhile, Terra, Aqua, and Ven return to the Land of Departure. Eraqus's Keyblade is planted in the ground adorned with a wreath, a vigil for their fallen master. The three each hold their Wayfinders close to their hearts before walking back to the castle. Terra and Aqua walk on ahead while something catches Ven's eye. Peering from behind a stone wall is a cat with folded ears, a cape, and a coin purse. Skittishly at being seen, Chirithy ducks behind the wall, before peeking out slowly. Ventus beckons it over and it hops out from the wall and into his arms. Terra calls for him to catch up and he obliges, as the three Wayfinders glimmer from their place on the wreath. In Twilight Town, Axel and Roxas sit in their usual spot, the clock tower. They look over as Xion joins them, sitting beside Roxas with a smile. They stare out at the ever-setting sun as a hand reaches in bearing sea-salt ice cream. They look up and see Isa with four bars in his hand. He offers one to each of them and sits beside Axel. Roxas goes to take a bite but notices the arrival of Hayner, Pence and Olette, each with their own ice cream bar. Axel and Roxas raise theirs in greeting and the trio sits next to Xion. They all begin to eat and a flying shadow passes over them. In Radiant Garden, Even and Ansem the Wise are working on the computer as Ienzo is monitoring a girl in the chair. Namin's eyes flutter open and Even and Ienzo smile. Later, Namin is led out of the castle by Dilan and Aeleus. She squints at the brightness of the sun as the Gummi Ship sails down to the square, blowing wind through her blonde hair and scattering flower petals. Riku steps out to greet her. She smiles and he extends his hand. She returns the smile and takes it. The Gummi Ship sails back into the sky. Some time later, this much larger group of friends play on the beach of the Destiny Islands. Riku, Roxas and Terra race along the beach as Mickey and Aqua cheer them on. Ventus, Axel and Isa play frisbee while Namin and Xion look at seashells. Hayner, Pence, and Olette complete their sand sculpture of the King's symbol while Donald proudly unveils his and Goofy's sculpture of...himself. Donald hops in front, mimicking the pose of the sculpture just as the frisbee crashes through it, dumping sand all over Donald. He balls up his fist and shakes it off angrily. Ven apologizes, incurring Donald's wrath as Mickey greets Riku as the winner of the race. Terra and Roxas catch their breath as Riku looks out to shore, catching the attention of the group. On the slanted paopu tree of the miniature island, Kairi sits next to Sora, his hand in hers. A tear rolls down her cheek and his form blurs and fades as the sun sets. In Olympus, Hercules continues the cleanup of the city. He sets down a heavy pillar and wipes his chin, exhaling. His eyes light up when Meg appears. She smiles and waves him closer. She guides him back to the Agora, covering his eyes. She stops and removes her hands. He looks up in surprise to see the restored statue of himself and the townspeople cheer on their hero as Pegasus walks over. Phil points to himself, basking in the praise as Pegasus and Meg share a glance. Hercules mimics the strong pose of his statue. Meanwhile in Twilight Town, a large group of customers are queued up outside Le Grand Bistrot. Scrooge, nervously fidgeting about behind the crowd, runs to the kitchen angrily shouting. He stops in surprise as Little Chef is busily cooking up dishes better than ever. He happily sniffs the chicken breast in one sautee pan before searing the scallops in the other. He stirs soup and joyfully adds seasoning to some steak. He sniffs the various scents of his food, smiling satisfyingly, as Scrooge stares in shock. He drops his cane, alerting Little Chef to his presence. The rat peers around cautiously before giving the owner a thumbs-up. Back in Andy's Room, Sheriff Woody chats with Buzz as he sits on a wooden block. Rex and Hamm pore over the strategy guide for Verum Rex as the Little Green Men gaze at each other, Sarge keeping a look out. They hear a sound from beyond the bedroom door and Woody stands next to Buzz, their attention focused on it. They smile wide as the doorknob begins to turn. The door opens and they drop to the floor motionless, but not before sharing a collective wink. At sunset in the Caribbean, the Flying Dutchman sails on with Will Turner at the helm. On the shoreline, Elizabeth watches him sail away. Later, Captain Jack Sparrow and Mr. Gibbs stare at the dingy docked in the place the Black Pearl should be. Gibbs looks out to sea, spotting something small on the horizon. Jack follows his gaze and sees the Black Pearl sailing far away from Port Royal. At night, Big Hero 6 clean up the destruction after a fight on the streets of San Fransokyo. Fred uses his ice breath to stamp out a flaming car. Honey Lemon tosses her adhesive chem-balls at the cracks in a building as the structure starts to give way. Wasabi chops through the body of a fallen truck as Go Go rolls away with a civilian on her back. Two cars lean off the edge of the overpass, their windows shattered. One of them begins to fall over as innocent cityfolk watch from below, but Baymax, carrying Hiro, catches it in midair. Suddenly the second car tumbles down. Hiro reaches, though helpless to stop it, but it is caught by the second Baymax. Hiro smiles at him in relief. Afterward, the citizens cheer them on. They exchange smiles and strike a pose. Meanwhile in Monstropolis, Mike Wazowski creeps up slowly behind Sulley, getting ready for a big scare. Sulley suddenly turns, shushing Mike to his surprise. Sulley turns revealing a sleeping Boo tucked in his arms. They look down at her and smile, and Sulley walks her over to her flowery door. After putting her to bed, they give warm smiles before closing her bedroom door. In Arendelle, Kristoff and Anna sled down the mountain as Olaf slides on his stomach beside them. Kristoff looks ahead in horror as they careen towards a cliff. He screams as Anna grins with resolve. Elsa turns around to see the sled and Olaf fly off the cliff. She opens her hand and magically creates an icy slide to catch them. They slowly come to a stop in front of Elsa and Sven, and Kristoff collapses on his back as Anna jumps out excitedly greeting her sister. Sven licks Kristoff's jacket with a grin as Marshmallow walks over. He opens his giant fists revealing pieces of Olaf. The snowman's body rebuilds itself, his head almost toppling over, and Elsa and Anna laugh at Marshmallow's reaction. In the Kingdom of Corona, Maximus struts around the marketplace as Eugene and a tiara-ed Rapunzel take each other's hands. He touches her face romantically and they pull in closer as hundreds of lanterns float in the sky above them. In the 100 Acre Wood, the gang is gathered around Rabbit's vegetable patch. Gopher helps Rabbit till the soil while Tigger uses his bouncing skills to tap holes into the ground. Piglet and Pooh help plant seeds as Roo and Lumpy water the new plants with his trunk. The water in the air sparkles bringing a smile to their faces. And finally...in the Keyblade Graveyard, Master Xehanort's Keyblade, the blade with no name, punctures the dry ground with its steel teeth. The blade's keychain rattles against the winged hilt in the blustery wind sailing through the desolate battlefield. A gloved hand grasps the Keyblade, pulling it from the soil, and the man stares out through his hood at the blade
He looks up, seeing a sandy vortex to his left. Out from the hazy winds steps a figure in colored robes. The man stands at the crossroads and three more robed figures emerge from their own vortices on each path. The first he identifies as Ira, a tall man in a unicorn mask. The second, Invi, a woman with the mask of a snake. Third, Aced, a large man with the mask of a bear. And fourth, Gula, a young man with the mask of a leopard. They approach the man, who stands beside a large black trunk
Ira looks down at the Keyblade in the man's hand
The man lifts his hood to reveal the scarred visage and eyepatch of...
Xigbar lifts the Keyblade
From above, Maleficent and Pete watch them before moving on. Xigbar looks around at the four of them, smirking
He turns to face Gula
Xigbar looks to the sky
Xigbar gives a small laugh before looking over at the black box
In Scala ad Caelum, Young Eraqus and Xehanort stare out the window after their chess game. Xehanort looks down at the crown token left on the board standing next to a fallen piece with the head of a ram. Eraqus looks back to the board and remembers
He picks up the two pieces and resets the board
Eraqus places seven pieces on Xehanort's side of the board, many with animal symbols on them
Eraqus looks down at the white crown piece in his hand
He plants the piece on the board. Blackness. Two eyes open. Red and blue lights reflected in a puddle on the pavement. A droplet of water falls to the ground, creating waves. Sora opens his eyes, seeing the blurry image of his own hand on the pavement. He moves his fingers as the water ripples beneath them. He stands up slowly taking in the details of the world around him. He sees a blue-tinged skyscraper in the reflection of the water. Sora looks down at his hand, the orange lights behind him reflecting his silhouette on the ground. He turns, not recognizing the buildings around him. Elsewhere, Riku stands. The blue lights behind him casting a glow against his skin. He scans his surroundings in haste. An orange stop light shines among the bluish tint of the city. Sora looks to his right. The water droplets on a nearby car cast a blue tinge despite the orange of the city around him. They start to walk about the two cities. Sora stares ahead at a building with a glowing 104 sign and Riku casts his eyes upward to a skyscraper with two towers. The lights at the top of each slowly flashing with a red light. Much like the many crossroads in his past, Sora stands amidst an intersection. Riku walks alongside the building, his boots slapping against the wet stone pathway. Sitting above the peak of the building is the young man with one blue and one red eye, Yozora. He stares down at Riku. Out across the cityscape, a hooded figure steps out onto the ledge of a skyscraper. The wind whips through his black coat as he faces the two-towered building from several miles away. He lifts his hands to the bright full moon, first making a rectangle like a frame. He shifts his fingers, turning them to a heart-shape over the moon Reconnect. KINGDOM HEARTS
Buena Vista Games Square Enix Kingdom Hearts II The words rush the screen and the camera moves through them. Fade in to Sora standing at a crossroads. More words appear on the screen
Kairi sits on the Destiny Islands beach, making a charm of thalassa shells. A shell is washed away in the water. Sora, Kairi, and Riku watch the sunset, dreaming of other worlds. Kairi, Riku, and eventually Destiny Islands itself disappears with the wind. Sora jumps off the paopu tree and lands at the Rising Falls in Hollow Bastion with Donald and Goofy. Sora jumps up the platforms, defeating Shadow Heartless. He sees Kairi lying in the Grand Hall of the castle and runs to her. He kneels down beside her and holds her. He turns his head and sees Riku, who turns around and holds out his hand to Sora. A large wave comes up behind him, and Sora appears on Destiny Islands. He runs to Riku with his Keyblade. In the Grand Hall, Sora and Riku's blades clash. Sora spins to hits him, but he leaps into the air. Pieces fly off him as he falls near the entrance to the Dark Depths, revealing him as Ansem. Sora leaps into the air and slams down his Keyblade. The door to Kingdom Hearts opens and light pours out. Ansem shields his eyes with his arm. Riku makes a promise to Sora as the door closes. Sora's heart is opened by the Keyblade, and the princesses' hearts are released. Sora holds Kairi close. Kairi stands on Destiny Islands staring out at the water. Day turns into night and lights fall around Kairi as she watches Sora leave. Kairi stands again at the water, but she is now older. Cross to Namin, who's drawing in Castle Oblivion. The spiral stairs become reality and Sora, Donald, and Goofy run up them fighting Heartless. Goofy smashes one with his shield. Donald performs Thunder. Sora sees DiZ and a figure in black through the blue smoke. A white hall forms around them and Sora finds himself alone, facing down Marluxia, who smirks. Sora runs forward. Marluxia swipes with his scythe. Sora flies forward, dodging another swing from the scythe. Riku leaps backwards, away from a blast from Ansem, catching himself and running forward. Sora and Riku exchange blocks and blows with Marluxia and Ansem. Sora throws his Keyblade at Marluxia, who stops it with his scythe. Sora, Donald, and Goofy run up through Castle Oblivion's spiral stairs as Riku and Mickey descend them. As Namin is drawing, Sora enters the room. On Namin's pad is a drawing of Sora inside a capsule. Sora looks down and a capsule blasts up and envelops him. He looks helpless at a sad Namin. Sora starts to fall. He soars across the water to Destiny Islands. Namin closes her sketchbook on a picture of a sleeping Sora. Sora, Kairi, and Riku lie hand in hand upon the beach. Roxas falls down through the water. He wakes up and lands on hard ground. He looks around warily but sees nothing. He steps forward, and covers his face as hundreds of birds fly out of a bright light, revealing a platform with Sora adorned on it. Roxas watches as the birds fly away. At a dark ocean beach, two people in black coats meet, one sitting on a rock overlooking the beach
Sora's memories play through his head
Sora awakens on the Destiny Islands, and yawns
Kairi giggles
Sora and Riku race on the beach
The three overlook the ocean at twilight
Sora gazes at his chalk drawing of him and Kairi in the Secret Place
Sora gets up in distress.
Sora and Kairi watch the ocean on the dock
Riku offers his outstretched hand to Sora. Sora runs to him but is stopped by darkness
Sora stands and faces Darkside
The door behind Kairi in the Secret Place blows her towards Sora, who readies to catch her
Kairi vanishes as Sora catches her. Sora is blown out of the tunnel. We are brought back to a morning view of a boy's room. The blond-haired Roxas sits up on his bed, after waking up
Roxas opens the window and looks out on the town as the train station bells ring in the morning air. The logo of Twilight Town appears on the screen as the train passes by in the background. Fade to The Usual Place, where the train passes on the tracks overhead. Hayner, Olette, and Pence are enjoying conversation, while Roxas sits thinking. The words 'The 1st Day' appear on the screen
They look over at Roxas, who only nods. Hayner jumps off his seat
Olette, not knowing what to say, looks over at Roxas, who shrugs
Roxas stands up and Hayner crosses his arms
Hayner slightly growls
They look and see that Pence is holding a camera
Pence puts a hand to his throat at his inability to say 'photos'
Hayner does the same
Hayner, Olette, and Pence run off. Roxas begins to follow, then becomes dizzy
Roxas falls and blacks out
Roxas wakes up on the ground and stands up, dusting himself off
Olette returns
Roxas nods. Roxas catches up to the group in the Market Street: Tram Common and Hayner spots him
Roxas approaches his friends in front of the Armor Shop
The group turns around and sees the accessory shop
Roxas speaks to the Accessory Shop owner
The four of them look to the candy shop
Roxas looks up and sees the cat on the awning above them. Roxas retrieves the cat
The four run to the Sandlot, where they find Vivi, Rai, and Fuu talking. Vivi notices them and stops, making them turn around
Vivi shakes her hat
Seifer walks in
Seifer, Vivi, Fuu, and Rai get ready to fight. So does Hayner
Roxas moves closer to the gang, who all laugh at him. Seifer crosses his arms. Roxas moves to kneel down
Roxas chooses the long battling sword with the strong handle. Roxas and Seifer prepare to duel
Roxas knocks Seifer around a few times
Roxas proceeds to defeat Seifer, much to Seifer's annoyance. Rai and Fuu move to guard Seifer
Pence gets out his camera to take a picture of Roxas. He gives him the thumbs up when a white Dusk appears out of nowhere and steals the camera. The Dusk flees toward the Market Street: Tram Common
The three race after the Dusk. Roxas follows it through the hole in the Market Street: Tram Common wall and ends up in the Woods. The Dusk continues through the forest, dancing around the trees as if it wanted Roxas to follow it. Roxas follows and ends up outside the Old Mansion. He approaches the Dusk. Words appear in Roxas's head
The mouth zipper of the Dusk opens and Roxas attacks. His sword however does nothing to inflict the Dusk
The sword in his hand swirls with data
The sword turns into the Keyblade
Roxas looks from the Dusk to the Keyblade and decides to try again. This time, he succeeds and the Dusk vanishes, dropping the pictures from the camera. The Keyblade in Roxas's hand disappears. Roxas's picks up the pictures and returns to the Usual Spot
Hayner spots the next picture and chuckles
Pence holds out the picture in his hand
The four friends laugh as the train station bells ring and the train passes overhead. They all look up at the tracks. Hayner, Pence, and Olette leave the Usual Spot, Olette waving. Roxas leaves after a bit. He holds out his hand to block the sun from his eyes and he hears a voice
The screen becomes scrambled
Someone in a black coat walks up to DiZ, who is sitting at a computer desk in front of many lit screens
Sora's memories continue to race through his mind. Sora is awoken by Pluto in the back alleyway of Traverse Town
Sora races into the Second District
Shadows appear around him and he readies his Keyblade
A static image of Kairi appears. Sora is confronted by Leon in the First District
Donald and Goofy are knocked out of the sky and onto Sora in the Third District
Sora locks the keyhole in Agrabah. Roxas wakes up in his room
The words 'The 2nd Day' appear on the screen. Roxas walks to the Usual Spot
Roxas spots a stick leaning against a wall and swings it around like it's a fighting weapon
He tosses it over his head and it hits someone wearing a black cloak in the chest
The person walks away down the steps
Roxas walks into the Usual Spot and sees Hayner, Pence, and Olette already sitting enjoying some sea-salt ice cream. Hayner offers Roxas some
Roxas sits down
Hayner stand up
The rest of the group say nothing but stand up as well
The group, except Roxas runs out of the Usual Spot. Pence runs back in
Pence leaves again. Roxas meets up with them in the Back Alley outside the Usual Spot
The group leaves to Market Street: Station Heights. Roxas finds them reading a poster on the wall about The Struggle
Roxas and Hayner make a sign of friendship with their arms
Pence puts his hands behind his head
Hayner runs off
Roxas helps out with some odd jobs and meets the other three at the Station Plaza
Roxas pulls out some munny
Olette shows them the munny pouch she made with the munny inside it
Olette gives the bag to Roxas
Olette and Pence run ahead into the station
Hayner jokingly punches Roxas in the stomach and joins the other three. Roxas follows but an invisible something makes him trip
A small stick drops to the ground. Hayner, Pence, and Olette stop. Hayner steps back a bit down the stairs. Roxas grunts slightly coming to his knees and touching his lip. He sees someone in a black cloak standing beside him
The person picks Roxas off the ground and whispers something to him
Roxas looks back to the figure, who is gone. He catches up to his friends in the station. Hayner bends at the teller and holds out four fingers
Roxas searches himself for where he put the munny pouch
Roxas looks back out toward the plaza and remembers the cloaked person picking him up
Roxas begins to run outside into the plaza
Hayner remembers Roxas outside getting himself up
The train station bell wakes Roxas up
The train whistle blows and they realize they've missed it
Hayner, Pence, and Olette leave the Station. Later, the four are eating sea-salt ice cream on the clock tower ledge. The train is moving in the background, while Roxas sits and thinks, his ice cream dripping
Roxas remembers what the figure whispered to him
The screen becomes scrambled
The cloaked man juggles the munny pouch while DiZ remains at the computer screens
He holds out the munny pouch
DiZ laughs. The figure juggles the pouch again
Sora remembers several events from his journey across worlds
Genie is granted legs
Sora summons Mushu
An image of Kairi flashes
Sora's on the deck of Captain Hook's pirate ship
Kairi's face flashes again
Tinkerbell floats before Sora. Cloud walks beside the group
Pooh waves goodbye and the other animals watch Sora leave
Kairi's face flashes again on the word 'her'. Sora locks Neverland. Sora slightly remembers Riku and Kairi, when their memories returned in Castle Oblivion. DiZ remains at his desktop. Namin stands in front of the capsule in a white room. Roxas's consciousness resides with Namin's
The girl turns around and smiles. Roxas wakes up in his room. Namin is standing there, but disappears when he turns to look
The words 'The 3rd Day' appear on the screen. Roxas walks into the Usual Spot and sees a letter on the couch Meet at the station. Today's the day we hit the beach--and don't sweat about the munny! -- Hayner
Roxas rides to the Market Street: Station Heights and sees Pence and Olette
The two freeze in midwalk
Roxas runs up to them but it suddenly stopped by Namin
Namin holds up a hand to quiet him
Roxas scratches his head and Namin walks away. Pence and Olette unfreeze
Roxas looks in the direction Namin left
Olette and Pence leave
Roxas looks again
Roxas runs to the Tram Common and sees Namin. He runs to the hole where the Woods are
A dark cloud appears and a few Dusks come out of it and try to pull him in
Roxas runs back to the Tram Common and the Dusks follow him. He runs into the Sandlot, catching the attention of Seifer, Fuu, Rai, and Vivi
Roxas stops as the Dusks enter
Fuu and Rai get in their fighting positions as Vivi runs away
Roxas spots one of the battling swords and rolls to grab it. Roxas tries to fight the Dusks, but is thrown down, his weapon having no effect. He stands back up and notices that Seifer, Vivi, Fuu, and Rai are completely frozen in time
The Dusks approach a weaponless Roxas
Roxas looks up and sees Namin on a building overlooking the Sandlot. A Dusk attacks Roxas, who blocks with his hands and is transported to the Station of Serenity on the blue Sora platform. A sword, shield, and staff appear in bursts of light. Roxas chooses, and the Keyblade appears in his hand. Dusks storm the platform and Roxas fights them. A treasure chest appears and he opens it. A mysterious door appears at the other edge of the platform. A bodiless voice seems to emanate from it
Roxas walks toward the door
Roxas opens the door and ends up in the Station of Calling. He ascends the stained-glass stairs, fighting Dusks until he comes to another door. He enters the Station of Awakening and encounters Twilight Thorn. He fights Twilight Thorn and it falls on top of him. He is pulled into the darkness, but Namin catches him and saves him. He finds himself in a white room standing before Namin. Before he starts to speak, Namin places a finger to her lips
The same cloaked figure returns and picks Namin up
The man holds out his hand and conjures a dark portal behind Roxas. Roxas leaps away from it. The figure pushes him inside, and Roxas wakes up in the Sandlot
Roxas sees Fuu take a picture of a posing Seifer while Rai and Vivi stand around her. She is using Pence's camera
Roxas stands up
Roxas shakes his head
Roxas looks over and sees that Olette, Hayner, and Pence have arrived. Hayner huffs off
Roxas runs to follow them
Roxas arrives back at the Usual Spot where the three are already having sea-salt ice cream
Roxas remembers the events of the previous day
Roxas and Hayner make a sign of friendship with their arms
Roxas waits for a response from Hayner
Hayner leaves. The screen becomes scrambled
DiZ sits at the computer with the cloaked man standing behind him
DiZ slams the desk with a fist
Sora's memories continue to flood back. He floats toward the light, trying to grab young Kairi in the Hollow Bastion library
Riku takes the Keyblade from Sora in the Rising Falls
Goofy protects Sora from a Dark Firaga of Riku's
Sora reclaims the Keyblade
Sora passes right through a cloaked figure in Hollow Bastion. He blocks a large wave of blue energy from the man and sends it flying into the castle's mortar and stone
Riku moves to strike Sora and release Kairi's heart
Sora has a flash of Kairi's face and he catches Riku's blow with his Keyblade
Sora releases Kairi's heart. Kairi saves Sora from the Heartless
Sora sees Kairi smiling at him
Kairi gives Sora the Oathkeeper keychain
Sora seals the keyhole at Hollow Bastion
Roxas wakes up and looks out his window
He moves as if striking with a Keyblade
He scratches his head. The words 'The 4th Day' appear on the screen. Later, Roxas runs out of the Usual Spot
Roxas runs to the Sandlot, where many people have gathered to watch The Struggle
Fireworks appear in the sky and the crowd cheers
More fireworks are set off. The announcer gets off the stage for the commentator to begin
Hayner looks to Roxas, who returns his gaze, but looks away solemnly
Setzer holds up the championship belt
The challengers have a quick refresher of the rules. The tournament producer hands Roxas and Hayner each a battle sword and pats them on the shoulder. Hayner points the sword at Roxas, who looks unhappy
Roxas shakes his head
He smiles, making Roxas smile as well. Olette and Pence stop their clapping to smirk at each other. Roxas readies for battle
Roxas and Hayner battle it out and Hayner loses
The announcer raises Roxas's arm and Roxas waves to the crowd
Roxas runs over to Hayner
Hayner stands up
Hayner smiles, then stops and crosses his arms
Hayner friendly punches Roxas's hand. He leaves and almost walks into Seifer coming up on stage
Roxas is startled by the sudden appearance of Vivi by his side. Vivi looks up at him and giggles. Vivi and Seifer are alone on the stage
Seifer and Vivi face each other down. Then Vivi flies at Seifer, who jumps away with Vivi in pursuit
Roxas shrugs. After a few attempts at hitting one another, Seifer blocks Vivi's slashes and knocks Vivi away, dropping one of Vivi's orbs
He lunges for the orb when Vivi returns and knocks Seifer down
Seifer sits up and shakes his head
Seifer, Fuu, and Rai leave the Sandlot
The producer hands Roxas and Vivi each a battle sword
Roxas and Vivi stare each other down as the Producer leaves the stage
Roxas battles Vivi. As he goes in for one last strike, something stops him and Roxas notices that everything has frozen in time. Vivi suddenly turns into a Dusk, then more appear
His sword turns into the Keyblade
Roxas fights the Dusks and wins, though he's tired. He's alerted by a cloaked man clapping behind him and turns around
The man walks in closer to Roxas
The man removes his hood, showing his flaming red hair
His chakram appear in flames and he catches them in his hands
Axel gets ready to fight. A strange presence flies around Roxas. Axel straightens up
Roxas sighs and looks at the Keyblade. He throws it down in frustration
The Keyblade appears back in his hand with a flash of light
Axel readies to fight again
Roxas fights Axel
DiZ appears
Axel sends his flaming chakram flying at DiZ, but with no impact
The two men shouting his name get the best of him and Roxas holds his head in his hands
The Struggle competition returns and the crowd is cheering once again at Roxas's defeat against Vivi
Hayner, Olette, and Pence rush the stage
Hayner notices Roxas's a little distraught
Setzer drinks up the attention
The producer walks offstage
Roxas glares at Setzer
Roxas beats Setzer
Setzer walks offstage and points back to Roxas. Hayner, Pence, and Olette rush up to Roxas
Setzer turns around and leaves
Roxas waves to the crowd. The producer presents him with the championship belt. Roxas holds it up and the crowd cheers. Later, on the ledge of the train station, Roxas sits with his friends, holding the crystal trophy. He takes off the yellow crystal and tosses it to Olette. He does the same with the red and green crystals, tossing them to Hayner and Pence. He takes out his own blue one and holds it up to the sun
Pence also holds his out
Hayner holds his out. Olette follows suit
She takes out four bars of sea-salt ice cream
Roxas stands up on the ledge and teeters on the edge. He loses his balance and falls as the screen flickers. On the Destiny Islands, Kairi walks down the path to the beach after school.
Kairi stops and turns around as Selphie catches up to her
Kairi gets a sudden headache while Roxas continues to fall off the clock tower
Kairi wakes up on the ground
Kairi nods. The two girls look to the island across the water. Kairi looks over at Selphie and smiles widely. She then runs to the beach. Selphie catches up
Kairi places her bag down and lets loose a message in a bottle in the ocean
The screen becomes scrambled
DiZ continues to sit at the computer screens while the cloaked man juggles a blue crystal
The man places the ball back into the munny pouch
The cloaked man revealed his face from under his hood
DiZ laughs
A white room is revealed. It is circular, with a stone floor and tall white chairs of differing heights. Axel is seated with two cloaked figures, one sitting on the topmost chair; only Axel is unhooded. One of the two sits with his arms crossed
The cross-armed man summons a naginata and drives it toward Axel. It strikes to his right and some hair is sliced off. Axel is unflinching. The leader holds up a hand to pacify him. He looks to the leader, then looks away. The naginata vanishes, and the leader summons a sphere of energy. Electrical bolts shoot out from it toward the walls
Roxas is falling through space, when suddenly he wakes up back in his room. He regains himself and sighs
The words 'The 5th Day' appear on the screen. The train passes by over the Usual Spot, where the four friends are gathered. Olette walks up to Roxas and puts her hands on her hips
He brightens up considerably
He runs out of the Usual Spot. Later, the friends are all back eating the sea-salt ice cream
Roxas proceeds to Central Station with Pence
Olette and Hayner walk in after them
They all run to the train and it begins taking them to Sunset Station. They all sit down inside the train. Olette pulls out her yellow crystal and holds it up. So does Hayner and Pence. Roxas searches for it, but his crystal is missing. He sits there sadly. The train comes to a screeching halt at Sunset Station. Hayner runs out of the train
Olette runs after Hayner. Pence and Roxas walk out together. Roxas stretches for a sec
Pence nods. Roxas sighs
Roxas and Pence walk to the Sunset Terrace. Roxas finds a dead end where strange balls fly out at him. He runs to the wall dodging the balls and hits it with his battle sword. Pence sees the balls fly out and runs into the dead end
They leave and a mysterious energy slightly shudders in front of the wall and vanishes. Roxas investigates a tunnel and sees Vivi alone
Roxas runs to Vivi, who then splits into several Vivis. Roxas defeats them and they turn into data. Vivi walks in from the entrance of the tunnel
Vivi walks toward Roxas holding a battle sword
Roxas walks out while Pence runs in
The Vivi that had just walked out turns into a Dusk and it floats out. Roxas leaves and passes a small waterfall, where he sees his reflection. Suddenly, the reflection walks out of the waterfall and through Roxas. It turns into a dark form and is ready for battle. Roxas gets out his sword as well. Roxas defeats the Shadow Roxas and it turns into data
Roxas stands up and dusts himself off
Pence looks over at the waterfall. Roxas and his' reflections are back where they should be
Roxas walks away as his Shadow form appears briefly in the waterfall. Roxas walks to Sunset Hill where there's a strange bouncing bag running around. Roxas jumps onto the bag to keep it from moving around
A dog comes out of the bag. Pence walks in
The dog walks back to its owner
A Dusk appears
Hayner and Olette run in
The four walk to Sunset Hill
They eventually get tired waiting and end up lying on the ground
Roxas turns around to see Seifer
He laughs and Roxas stands up, annoyed
Seifer turns around and pats his chest with his fist, then leaves
A mysterious blue and gold train decorated with stars and moons pulls through the underpass
The other three look at each other
The four rush to the station to catch the train, Roxas leading the way. The train is there when they arrive
Hayner stops Roxas
Roxas looks back and the train has disappeared
The usual orange train pulls into the station. A few passengers, including Fuu and Rai walk out
He pleads to Olette with his hand. She shakes her head. Hayner groans and pushes Roxas onto the train. Later, after arriving back at the train station, they walk toward Market Street
Pence sighs at Roxas's determination
Pence and Olette follow Hayner. Roxas proceeds to the Old Mansion
Roxas is startled and turns around
Roxas looks up to the dusty window of the mansion. Namin is in the window
Roxas looks back up to the window. Inside, there is a white room with a long table and pictures on the walls. Everything but the colors in the pictures is white. One of the pictures focuses on Kairi with a paopu fruit
Another of the pictures is of Roxas and Axel, both in the Organization cloaks. The camera has changed to Roxas's full point of view
Roxas sees a picture of Sora, Donald, and Goofy
Roxas sees a picture of himself with Sora
Roxas and Namin sit at opposite ends of the long white table
Pence shakes Roxas out of his staring contest with the window
Roxas points up to the window, where Namin is gone
Namin has returned to the window
The two boys return to their hideout
Roxas looks up
The three walk to Central Station. Hayner is on the ledge eating ice cream
Everyone but Roxas laughs as the bells ring in the background. In a dimly lit room, DiZ is sitting in a large wooden chair as the cloaked Ansem walks in
Ansem sits in an opposite chair
The screen becomes scrambled
Sora's last memories flash through his mind. The trio stands in the Gate to the Dark in the End of the World
Sora remembers fighting the Chernabog
Sora remembers the final showdown with Ansem
Sora remembers Ansem's defeat
Sora, Donald, and Goofy help close the door of Kingdom Hearts
Sora runs to Kairi
Kairi falls but Sora catches her
Sora and Kairi break away from each other. Sora, Donald, and Goofy walk down a winding path
They see Pluto walking with a letter in his mouth
Pluto turns to run down the path
At nighttime, Sora is startled by a figure in black. He turns around to see it, but it is gone. He looks around for a second, then turns around again. The figure is slightly down the road. Sora runs to it, but it fades away. Sora finds Castle Oblivion at the end of the road. At the same dark beach, the two cloaked figures meet
In a mysterious dark city, while the rain falls, hundreds of Neoshadows rise from the ground. They surround another figure in black, who takes out two Keyblades, the Oathkeeper and the Oblivion and swings them into position. He destroys several of the Neoshadows before looking up to the top of the main skyscraper of the city. The rain has stopped for a moment. An unhooded but blindfolded man stands at the top of the skyscraper. The duel-wielding person runs up the side of the building and tosses the Oblivion Keyblade to the man at the top, who dives off the edge of the building and catches the weapon in his hand, falling down past the running figure. They turn to look at each other as they pass. After they both have reached the bottom, they destroy the remaining Neoshadows, then turn on each other. The two exchange blows before the figure with the Oathkeeper knocks the other man to the ground
The boy brings down a final blow to the silver-haired one. Roxas wakes up in his bedroom and slides off the bed. He shifts from Sora to Roxas several times as he stands up. Roxas looks outside his window. Birds fly past as the words 'The 6th Day' appear on the screen. Hayner, Olette, and Pence are already in the Usual Spot when Roxas arrives there
His friends have no response
He reaches toward Hayner and his hand goes right through him
Roxas takes a step back watching his friends laugh with no notion of his existence. Hayner turns around and runs right through him, Pence and Olette following. Roxas stops and sighs, his eyes closing. He picks up a picture nearby which includes Hayner, Olette, and Pence, and had previously included Roxas. Roxas leaves the Usual Spot and is cornered by Dusks. Then, Axel appears
Axel scratches his head
Roxas gives no answer, and Axel sighs sadly
The stick in Roxas's hands becomes the Keyblade. He defeats the Dusks around him. Axel swings up his chakram to strike, and is frozen. Roxas notices and stops
Roxas runs to Market Street
Roxas runs to the Old Mansion. He turns around at the locked gates and more Dusks spring up behind him
Roxas gets a vision of Sora holding out his Keyblade. Roxas steps back from the gate and unlocks the keyhole in it. The gates open and he runs inside. The Dusks try to follow but are stopped by a hooded figure holding a wing-like sword. Roxas enters the mansion and finds the White Room. Roxas walks past pictures he saw when he was in this room before and stops at one of him in an alleyway of the dark city he saw in his dreams. He gets a sudden headache. Thunder rumbles in the sky of the city as a cloaked Roxas walks through the dark streets. He passes Axel who is leaning on the wall, crossing his arms
Roxas stops
Roxas's vision stops and he sees Namin in the White Room
Roxas chuckles
Roxas walks to the table and leans against it
Namin flickers
The form of Namin breaks into several pieces and disappears. DiZ appears in a flash of data
Ansem still hooded appears
A portal springs up behind DiZ containing Namin
DiZ grabs Namin and covers her mouth
Roxas tries to run to the portal, but is stopped by Ansem. Namin stops DiZ's clench over her mouth
Namin and DiZ begin to fade away through the portal
The portal vanishes along with Ansem. Roxas holds out his left hand
Roxas finds the Mansion Library. He draws a crown symbol in the missing place on the table and it reveals a hidden room beneath the floor. He walks into another basement room and finds a large set of monitors and an odd machine. Roxas's head aches again. He is reminded of a large white room with huge chairs, on which sat each of the Organization XIII. Roxas runs down a city street chased by Dusks. Hooded, he is confronting the silver-haired man
The blindfolded one quickly grabs his Keyblade and knocks Roxas away as he tried to slash with his Keyblade. The blindfolded one stands up and walks toward Roxas. Roxas is later lying underneath the odd machine as DiZ and Ansem appear
DiZ turns and walks toward the set of monitors
DiZ sits down and punches in some keys
The machine starts up and changes Roxas into data and Roxas is gone. Roxas's headache stops and his anger rises. The Keyblade appears in his hands and he begins to hack away violently at the computer monitors. Once he's vented his anger, a door opens. Roxas enters the Basement Hall and is immediately surrounded by Nobodies. Roxas defeats them and Axel walks in with his arms crossed
Axel's anger causes the edges of the room to erupt in flames
Roxas manages to conjure the Oathkeeper and Oblivion Keyblades
Axel makes his chakram appear and he smiles at Roxas
Roxas fights Axel and wins
The flames disappear. Roxas stares at Axel and remembers the last time he talked to him before, in the alleyway
As Axel begins to fade away
Axel disappears. Roxas walks up to where Axel vanished. Later, Roxas walks through the basement corridor. He sees two capsules with familiar faces inside
He turns to the door at the end of the hall and enters. DiZ is standing a completely bright room in front of a single large capsule
He conjures the Keyblade
Roxas runs up to DiZ and strikes through him. The Keyblade creates a wave of data through DiZ. Roxas, surprised, stands straight
Roxas screams in anger, and futilely strikes DiZ repetitively with the Keyblade. DiZ vanishes and reappears behind him while Roxas catches his breath
Roxas stares at DiZ
Roxas runs and cuts again through DiZ. DiZ disappears and the capsule glows. The mechanical petals open slowly and reveal what they contain
Sora, still asleep, is floating inside
The Kingdom Hearts II logo appears on the screen and fades in to the train station, where a hooded King Mickey exits the mysterious blue and gold train. Roxas turns around and fades to white
Sora wakes up and the capsule opens again in front of Donald and Goofy. Sora stretches and the other two laugh at how small his clothes have gotten. Sora jumps out of the capsule in front of them and grabs them in his arms
They laugh and hop in a circle. Jiminy Cricket climbs on Sora's shoulder, yawns, and stretches
Jiminy hops down to the floor
Jiminy takes out a book
Sora, Donald, and Goofy look at one another and shake their heads
The group walks to Twilight Town and enters the Usual Spot
Hayner, Olette, and Pence are boredly lying around the room
Hayner leaves
Sora looks at Donald and Goofy who shrug
Olette and Pence leave
They enter the Sandlot and find Seifer, Fuu and Rai
Seifer, Fuu, and Rai take defensive stances
Donald nods and he and Sora also stand defensively
The tournament producer runs over to them
He turns to Sora
They continue to Central Station and are suddenly surrounded by Dusks. They fight them, but are overwhelmed and become exhausted. Mickey appears on the ledge of the station. As the Dusks strike again and Sora holds up his Keyblade, Mickey swoops down and destroys the remaining Nobodies with his own Keyblade. Sora is amazed. Donald and Goofy push Sora down out of the way
He holds out the munny pouch
Sora takes it and Mickey runs to Market Street
Sora laughs
Donald and Goofy look at each other and laugh along with Sora
Donald and Goofy nod
Sora places his hands behind his head
Donald sighs
They run inside the station
Hayner, Pence, and Olette catch up to them
A ringing sounds
Sora takes out the Munny Pouch at the teller. Olette notices
Olette takes an exact copy of the Munny Pouch
Sora looks to both pouches and shrugs
Sora gets three tickets from the teller
As they are about to leave
Donald and Goofy nod
Donald and Goofy wave as they enter the train
Sora thinks
Sora smiles and a tear falls down his cheek. The other three are surprised and so is Sora when he starts to brush it away
Sora waves and enters the train. He waves again as the door closes. The train leaves. Pence turns to Hayner and Olette. Sora, Donald, and Goofy watch outside as the train rolls on. Sora takes out the Munny Pouch and stares at it. The blue crystal ball is in it, and he holds that up to the light
Donald sits down
The train rolls out into the open sky. Axel and a hooded figure stand at Sunset Hill. Namin sits on a nearby bench. Axel walks over to the wooden railing and leans on it, watching the train leave
He stands upright
She stares at the notebook in her lap, which shows a picture of Sora holding hands with Roxas
He looks to the hooded man
Namin looks at the hooded figure, pulls the notebook closer, and looks at it again
They both turn to look at Axel. The figure then looks at Namin again
She stares back at him
He moves his arm and opens a dark portal. Namin looks to Axel, then back to the man, then back to Axel, who nods. She faces the man, clutching her notebook
Namin stands up walks slowly toward the portal, keeping her eyes on the hooded man. Eventually, she lets go and runs into the portal. Axel walks in after and it closes. The train pulls onto the base of a mysterious tower, emblazoned with moons and stars like the train. Sora, Donald, and Goofy leave the train, which then disappears, leaving only the tracks. Sora giggles nervously
Someone is standing at the doorway of the tower
Pete turns around and spots Donald, Goofy, and Sora
Pete laughs
Sora, Donald, and Goofy giggle
Donald snickers
Some shadows come out of the ground. Sora conjures his Keyblade and fights them
Donald runs up the steps and into the tower
Sora and Goofy then run up the stairs, leaving Pete and his dropped jaw hanging. They ascend the stairs until they reach the top floor, fighting Heartless along the way.
They reach the Sorcerer's Loft where an old wizard is sitting at his desk. Donald and Goofy bow to him
Goofy and Donald are slightly shocked at Sora
The wizard calms Donald down
Sora holds out his hand and the Keyblade flashes into it
Sora nods. Yen Sid looks to Donald and Goofy who quickly stand up straight and nod. Yen Sid waves a hand over the table and a thick book appears. He makes it float into the air and spins it toward Sora. It opens and lands at the edge of the table
Sora reads the book The Beginning - Each journey gives rise to chance encounters, and each encounter brings forth a farewell. When a farewell leads to a journey, the worlds open their hearts. Those chosen by the light, or ensnared by darkness. Friends who share the same bonds, though their paths may differ. When you doubt the path trod thus far, when the hand you held is lost to you, gaze anew at the heart that once was...for all the answers are within. Interlude - A long dream. A sad farewell, hanging in the air in that world between. What is reality? What is illusion? The path chosen by the young boy leads to his memories. When caught in the stream of the days and nights going past, gaze anew at your steps...for there all confusion will end. The Future Story - Will the day come when this battle, born of confusion, will end? It is different things to different people. Can the reality be that which is hidden? The reason is mere existence. Still, memories can be believed. Be not afraid. Entrust your body to the soothing waves of your memories. By and by, your fleeting rest will be over...and everything will begin.
Sora, Donald, and Goofy sigh
Yen Sid nods
Yen Sid waves a hand and an image of Donald appears near the wall. This image then changes to a Shadow Heartless
Yen Sid waves his hand again and an image of a Dusk Nobody appears next to the Shadow
The Shadow image disappears
Two more images of Dusks appear around Sora
The images vanish
The wizard waves his hand again and images of figures in black appear in the Dusks' place. Sora, Donald, and Goofy look wary
He looks to Goofy and Donald, but they shake their heads
The cloaked figures disappear
Yen Sid motions toward the door
Sora giggles nervously and pulls at his clothes. They enter the Wardrobe. Three fairies, one red, one green, and one blue are chatting near the window
Flora and Merryweather pull Sora away from Goofy. Fauna sends out a spell which turns Sora's clothes green
Merryweather flicks her wand and Sora's clothes turn blue
Flora turns Sora's clothes pink
Fauna makes Sora's clothes green again
Flora turns them pink again. By now, Sora is looking helpless
Fauna changes them green again
Merryweather makes them blue again. The fairies exchange more spells, making Sora's clothes continue changing colors. A raven watches from the window, squawks, and flies away. A green clothed Sora finally decides to break the feud
The fairies gasp and slightly giggle
All three fairies turn their spells on Sora at once, and his clothes turn black with red and gold bands
Sora is fine with it, and the Keyblade appears in his hand
Flora magics up a glowing orb which hovers in front of Sora
Sora grabs for the orb and takes it in
Sora is struck with immense power. A light flashes and his clothes are suddenly red. Donald and Goofy look in awe. Sora now is holding a second Keyblade in his left hand
Sora sighs
Sora looks at both of his Keyblades
They walk back into the hallway, where Yen Sid motions them over to the window. A gummi ship rises into view
They nod, then stand up straight in the wizard's presence
The three relax a bit
They stand up straight again
Each of them gives the wizard a salute and run down the corridor. Yen Sid disappears in a whisk of light. Back in the Wardrobe, the fairies have noticed a strange figure in the window
The raven has flown in with a long black dress. He sets it down on the floor and slowly hops off it
Merryweather clasps her hands over her mouth
The cloak begins to change form and rise out of the ground. The fairies mumble to each other about the horridness of the situation
Flora and Fauna leave the room. The darkened form of Maleficent rises
Merryweather also flees. Maleficent laughs at her return. In the Gummi Ship, Sora and company are hailed by Chip and Dale
Sora sees Hollow Bastion on the map
In a room at the top of a dark tower in Hollow Bastion, Pete is searching around
Pete notices how empty the room is
Diablo flies closer to the tower
Diablo is almost at the room
Diablo the raven swoops onto the ledge and surprises Pete. On the other side of the world, the town is bustling with activity. Moogles are flying through the air selling items, and people are at work trying to rebuild the town. Sora, Donald, and Goofy run in and gaze at the castle in the midst of rebuilding
Goofy sees some Soldier Heartless on the roof of a nearby building
Sora and company walk through the Marketplace and spot an elderly duck holding some ice cream near a freezer
Scrooge turns around and sees them
Scrooge looks at the ice cream bar in his hand, licks it, and looks disgusted
Sora, Donald, and Goofy make their way to the Borough, where some odd light pedestals appear and disappear, as if scanning for something
The three look around and see Yuffie on top of a building
Yuffie waves slightly, and sees something behind them
Sora's Keyblade flashes into his hands as a Dusk swoops in to hit him. They are quickly surrounded by Nobodies. They dispose of them, and the defense mechanism also helps
Yuffie hops down to them
Sora pats his chest
She starts to walk off toward Merlin's House
Donald and Goofy laugh
Yuffie runs around the corner. The others follow her and enter Merlin's House. Cid is typing at a computer, while Aerith and Leon watch
Sora, Donald, and Goofy act nervously
Leon, Aerith, and Cid shake their heads
Cid gets up in Sora's face
Sora pats his chest proudly
Leon opens the door
He leaves, and Merlin appears
Aerith takes out three cards from her dress
Sora takes the card and flips it so he can read it
Donald and Sora nod
Sora turns around to the door and sees that Leon is gone
Sora crosses his arms
Sora and company reach the bailey, and see Leon looking over the edge at the dark castle far in the distance
Sora gasps
He points to the castle, then points to two Dusks walking in the direction of the castle
All four of them look around and see no one. Sora runs out into an open area
He unleashes his Keyblade
Several Dusks appear. Leon readies his Gunblade. Sora chases the Dusks through the bailey. The gate to the inside closes. Sora and Leon help keep the Nobodies away from the gate
A group of six people laugh
Six cloaked figures appear and the central one raises his arms
They disappear in a laugh
Donald runs to a set of stairs and a single cloaked man appears before them
The hooded man wags a finger at Sora
Sora snaps out of it. The man laughs
The man spreads his arms open as if challenging them to strike him. He soon gives up
He disappears as Donald tries to jump on him
Sora takes out his membership card and reads it
The card begins to glow. Sora gasps and lets go of it. It floats in the air to everyone's amazement. The Keyblade glows
Light flashes from the Keyblade and the card. Wind blows through Sora's clothes and hair as a crown symbol appears on the ground beneath him. The card reveals a Keyhole and Sora locks it, opening a gateway
Leon nods
Leon salutes them. The cloaked members are now seated in a circular white room in various tall chairs
The man laughs softly, pulling out a deck of cards from his sleeve and choosing one, holding it between two fingers
The man abruptly sits up in his chair
He waves his arms and shrinks back down
They all look in toward the leader
All but the leader teleport away. Sora's group reboards the Gummi Ship and notices that their map has changed
Sora pilots the Gummi Ship through the Asteroid Sweep to the Land of Dragons. A village is burning. A hawk flies through the air. A single man stands in the midst. The hawk lands on his shoulder and he smiles. A soldier watches from a bamboo grove
The shadow of a large dragon surrounded by red smoke on a large rock is talking with the soldier
The dragon places a hand on his forehead. Sora, Donald, and Goofy are walking though the grove, when Goofy spots their conversation and stops. They see the shadow and become suspicious
Sora and Donald run ahead
Mulan gasps as they run in. Mushu jumps from behind the rock into Mulan's arms. He is definitely not a large dragon
Mushu pops out from behind Mulan
Mushu hops to the ground
Mushu leans against Sora's leg. Mulan is hesitant to show herself. Sora moves his leg and Mushu falls over
She quickly lowers her voice
Mushu pops up
He scurries back up onto Ping's shoulders
Ping smiles awkwardly
Mushu switches shoulders
Sora and Donald jump in surprise
They walk into the encampment
Ping straightens up and does a very awkward strut into the camp. Sora joins a line of soldiers before being pushed from his spot by Yao
Yao punches Sora in the face. Donald mumbles something and pounces on Yao
Yao and Donald exchange punches
Ling and Chien-Po come along
Ling ends up pushing Yao farther from the line. Chien-Po accidentally knocks Ling and Yao away from the line
Yao gets Donald off him
Yao punches Ling
Donald knocks Ling down and starts jumping on his back. Sora tries to grab Yao, but Yao knocks Sora's hands away. Chien-Po, Goofy, and Ping just stand there not really knowing what to do
They all stop fighting and turn to look at Mulan
Ping shoves Mushu back inside
They all quickly regain the line formation. Donald peeks out for a second, then straights back up. The captain walks down the line staring at each of them. After he leaves, Sora makes a fist, glaring at Yao, before Shadow Heartless appear. Sora readies his Keyblade
Ling, Yao, and Chien-Po ready their fists
They successfully get rid of the Heartless and the captain speaks to them
They talk to Captain Shang when they're ready
After defeating the Heartless at the Checkpoint
After defeating the Heartless at the Checkpoint
After defeating the Heartless in the encampment
After readying themselves
As the group enters the Mountain Trail, a hawk flies overhead. They fight their way to a village
Ling, Yao, and Chien-Po leave. Ping looks down
Shang arrives with two foot soldiers
Shang and the two foot soldiers continue into the summit
They enter a small village near the summit
Sora, Donald, and Goofy nod
They enter the Village Cave and find a small shrine
Donald starts to leave
Goofy follows Donald out of the cave
There is a strange shaking
A barrier forms at the entrance blocking Donald and Goofy out
Shan-Yu laughs and secretly leaves the cave. Several Heartless appear in the room, leaving Sora and Ping to take care of them
The barrier vanishes
They return to the Village, which has been reduced to smoking ashes. They find Li Shang among the rubble clutching his side
Shang tries to stand, leaning against a blackened wall
Shang collapses to the ground slightly
They look toward the summit
The group runs through the Ridge to the Summit. The hawk flies over them to land on Shan-Yu's shoulder at the top of the summit. Hundreds of Heartless hover over the edge of the cliff. Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Ping get ready to fight. The hawk flies off Shan-Yu's shoulder as he cleaves the air with his sword
The Heartless charge down the mountain toward the group. Sora tries to fight them off until Shan-Yu speeds down the mountain with the group behind him. The hawk flies overhead as Yao, Chien-Po, and Ling enter the summit with a fire cannon
Yao places the fire cannon on the snow and aims it at Shan-Yu. Mulan sees how that's not going to help completely and buts Yao out of the way
Ping grabs the fire cannon and runs higher up the mountain. She aims it at the peak above
She looks at Mushu
Ping grabs Mushu and stretches him so his fire breath lights the fire cannon. Mushu ends up on the head of the cannon as it explodes, shooting him off to the mountaintop
The cannon hits the mountain, causing an immense avalanche
Shang enters with two foot soldiers. Ping looks from Shang to the avalanche, then back at Shang. She runs to the captain
The snow races down the summit, plowing over the Heartless and Shan-Yu, heading straight for Sora and the others. Mulan runs to Shang and grabs him by the hand, pulling him around the rock corner away from the pummeling snow
Sora and the rest of the troops quickly make a run for it around the rock formation as the snow falls off the edge of the summit. Shang and Ping catch their breath
They stand up
Mushu pops out of the snow
Mushu sees that Shang is right there and clasps his hands over his mouth
Mulan says nothing. Sora, Donald, and Goofy run up to them
Sora, Donald, and Goofy are at a loss for words
Shang walks back toward the Ridge
The troops leave the summit. Mulan sighs. Mushu hops onto her shoulder
Mulan changes out of her armor
Mulan sighs again. Sora takes Donald and Goofy into his arms
They walk back to the Ridge. The hawk flies overhead to the Summit, where Shan-Yu bursts out of the snow and roars in anger. It rings throughout the mountain. The Heartless appear behind him and the hawk lands on his shoulder. Sora and Mulan see them
They race to the city, where the troops have just entered the palace walls
Shang stops
Donald spots the hawk flying high above the palace. Shang looks around onto several of the towers as Shan-Yu stands triumphantly upon one. He jumps down to get closer to a way in the palace
Yao, Ling, and Chien-Po charge the palace, but the other soldiers remain where they are
The soldiers stop in their tracks and change into Heartless. Shang is speechless. Sora and Mulan take action
Shang stays where he is
Shang nods and races to the main palace building. The Heartless surround the remaining group. They quickly decimate the Heartless
They run across Imperial Square to the Palace Gate, where Shan-Yu stands with his sword to the Emperor
Shan-Yu looks to Mulan, who looks worried. Shang jumps down in the middle of them and knocks Shan-Yu away. Shang helps the Emperor into the Palace and Chien-Po and Ling quickly close the gate. Shan-Yu gets back up as Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Mulan guard the gate, stopping Shan-Yu in his tracks
The hawk lands on Shan-Yu's shoulder as he glows with dark energy, laughing evilly. After the grueling fight, Shan-Yu clutches his side and falls over, losing the grip on his sword. Mushu jumps around happily
Sora and company stand in reverence to the Emperor, who walks out with Shang, a stern look on his face. There are hundred of people now in Imperial Square
Mulan bows to the Emperor
Donald looks hopeless
The Emperor bows to Mulan. She looks up and is completely speechless. The crowd in the square cheers. Sora, Donald, and Goofy congratulate Mulan
Shang takes Shan-Yu's sword and hands it to Mulan
She bows again
He bows to them slightly
Shang is surprised. The Emperor laughs, as does Mulan
Mushu turns to run away
Shan-Yu's sword glows and Sora stops chasing Mushu
Sora gets out the Keyblade and opens another gate
Mulan blushes as Sora waves goodbye. They turn to look at each other. Mulan giggles. Mushu pops up onto her shoulder and laughs
Sora, Donald, and Goofy walk down the steps of the Imperial Palace and leave the Land of Dragons. Sora pilots the Gummi Ship through the Stardust Sweep to an enchanted castle in the midst of a dark forest. The three enter through large doors into a dimly lit and empty hallway
A loud familiar roar rings through the castle
They hear another growl
A Shadow Heartless sneaks across the floor into the Parlor
The three run to the room. Donald peeks around the doorframe
His eyes meet a mysterious glowing rose under a glass case sitting on a table in the corner of the room. He walks over to it when the Shadow pops out of the ground, snapping Donald from his trance
Many more spring up and surround them and Sora gets out his Keyblade. They try to fight them off, but more just keep coming
The doors slam open and the Beast walks in with an angry scowl on his face. Sora, Donald, and Goofy look hopeful. The Beast knocks away the Heartless that attack him and growls
The Beast walks over to the rose, knocking the trio away. He clenches the rose glass, almost fondling it, and walks out of the room. Donald, Goofy, and Sora watch him leave. Donald rubs his head
The three leave the room, but Donald stops
They look up to the long staircase branching to the east and west
The trio run up the stairs into the East Wing. Sora turns around and puts a finger to his lips
Goofy clasps his hands over his mouth. They sneak closer to the door
Sora points to the door quietly. Donald and Goofy nod. Donald steps back from the door
He gets ready to run
Donald blasts through the doors
Belle grabs Donald and hugs him
He and Goofy wave
Belle finally realizes and sets the dizzy Donald down
Donald and Goofy look to Sora, who shrugs
Donald nods
Sora gives her a thumbs up. They leave and enter the west hall past rows of armor
Sora finds a wardrobe down the hall that seems to be blocking something, so he tries to move it. Behind, he sees a door
The wardrobe moves back again, blocking the door. Sora again pushes the wardrobe slowly so as not to wake her up. Once he finally moves her completely out of the way, she wakes up
The three nod, interested to hear more
They enter the door to the undercroft and find a strange door with two stone creatures on it
Donald walks over to the door and places an ear against it. The eyes of the creatures glow. Donald backs away from the door as the creatures come alive and grab the keyhole of the door
Donald runs before one of the Heartless creatures slams a fist down on top of him. The creatures slam their fists together. Sora defeats the door and an odd dark spiked ball floats out of it. They watch it hover into the room and disappear. The door becomes unlocked
They enter the door and find a small room with a few objects inside
Sora sighs
A clock, a candlestick, a teapot, and a teacup hop off their chairs and join Sora's group, who bend down to their level
Sora motions to them as he says their names. Donald reaches to grab Cogsworth, scaring the rest of the servants and Goofy and Sora. Donald picks up Cogsworth
Donald inspects the clock, who is waving about. Donald shakes him
Donald tickles Cogsworth's foot and pulls on his arm
Sora puts Chip down
Donald opens up Cogsworths window and plays with his pendulum
Cogsworth shuts his window, and Donald places him onto a box
Cogsworth dusts off and clears his throat
Lumiere hops down and reaches the door
They continue into the undercroft. On the upper level, two suits of armor guard a door
The suits step aside and the doors open. Mrs. Potts, Chip, and Lumiere walk inside
They enter the
Cogsworth jumps onto a crank, which lowers a dark flaming lantern
Sora points his Keyblade at the lantern. The enchanted flame dies down and Lumiere lights the lantern normally
Sora, Cogsworth, Mrs. Potts, and Lumiere repeat this on each of the other lanterns to open the passageway
Sora pushes the block into the wall and it reveals a set of stairs
Lumiere, Mrs. Potts, and Chip leave
Sora proceeds through the west wing into The Beast's Room. The Beast is talking with a hooded visitor in front of the enchanted rose
The Beast turns around and roars angrily. The hooded man notices Sora, Donald, and Goofy's entrance. They are ready to fight
The man forms a barrier protecting the area of the room with the rose, and he vanishes. The four walk over to the Beast
The Beast roars, stopping them in their tracks
The Beast angrily slashes and growls at Sora and Donald, who leap out of the way. The Beast lets out another loud roar, and the fight ensues
Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Cogsworth help the Beast regain his senses
The Beast looks at the floor, saying nothing
Beast sighs
The group proceeds to Belle's Room in the East Wing
They race to the Entrance Hall
Belle runs across the ballroom floor, as Sora and crew enter
Belle runs to the balcony door and closes it before a large spiked ball in chains floats down in front of it, trying to go after her. It turns around and changes targets. It floats up to the large candelabra and drops down into the floor. Waves of darkness emanate through the ballroom, poisoning it. Donald jumps into Goofy's arms to get off the floor. The chained ball jumps back out of the floor as the dark pool climbs up the ballroom pillars. It covers the intricate painting on the ceiling and mutates the chandelier. After a short battle, the ball spasms and covers itself in dark webs. The webs burst, revealing a large violet creature with pink throbbing fins attached to its head. It roars and Sora moves into action. After a grueling battle with the monster, it roars and is obliterated. The ballroom returns to normal
The three look over at the door to the Entrance Hall and see Xaldin, still hooded
Sora and Beast run over to Xaldin, who disappears in a dark wave
They stop running
Sora points at Goofy and nods
Belle walks back in from the balcony doors
The Beast runs over to her. Mrs. Potts, Lumiere, Chip, and Cogsworth walk in
Belle smiles, making Beast smile back
Belle wags a finger at Beast, who looks sheepish
She crosses her arms. Beast looks down
She rubs up against Chip
Sora's Keyblade appears. The rose glass in Beast's room floats into the air. The Keyblade emits a bright light. Sora opens another gateway
The Beast looks at Belle, then looks away
Belle and Beast nod
Sora, Donald, and Goofy wave
The trio leaves Beast's Castle and they notice something odd about the Gummi Ship once they're aboard
The ship docks in Hollow Bastion and they get off at the Borough
They walk to Merlin's House and see the door is open. Several Soldier Heartless run out of it
The Heartless disappear
They run into the house and see Merlin on the floor. Merlin adjusts his glasses and stands up as Sora runs over to him
A familiar book appears in Merlin's hand. He hands it to Donald
Merlin vanishes in a puff of smoke
Donald opens the book and holds it up
Sora enters the book
He enters Pooh Bear's House, and sees Pooh sitting on a log. Pooh notices his entrance
Pooh hops off the log, but somehow is caught midjump and everything freezes
Sora tries to touch Pooh and is thrown back out of the Hundred Acre Wood. He lands on the floor in Merlin's House. The book, which is now on a desk, closes
Sora runs outside to join his friends in midbattle with the Heartless
Three Soldier Heartless run out of Merlin's House, one carrying the book
They fight the Heartless, but the book's cover gets slashed in the process. Sora picks it up off the ground
Donald takes the book and holds it open again. Sora reenters and goes to Pooh's House. Pooh is still sitting on the log
Sora runs over
Pooh hops off the log
Pooh begins to exercise, touching his toes and stretching his legs
Pooh doesn't notice Sora and says nothing
Sora leaves the book
Merlin walks over to the book and inspects it
Sora pilots the Gummi Ship through the Phantom Storm to a dark underworld, where above in the Olympus Coliseum, Hercules has just defeated the Rock Titan
Donald points to a set of stairs leading upward
They hear a scream and see a woman running from a bunch of Rabid Dog Heartless. The woman falls and the Heartless are upon her
Sora and the others run over, scaring the Heartless away. Sora offers to help her up
Meg stands up
She looks at each of them in turn
Sora, Donald, and Goofy enter the Cave of the Dead. They see a cloaked man running through the cave
They continue through the passage into the Inner Chamber to find the cloaked man still running
He eventually fades away
Hades is speaking with Pete in Hades's Chamber
Hades gets annoyed at Pete and slams his fists on the edges of his chair. Pete covers his head, while Pain and Panic hide behind him. Hades thinks for a second
Sora, Donald, and Goofy enter the Valley of the Dead. Donald shivers
They walk across the bridge and up the stairs. Pete, Hades, Pain, and Panic are looking into Hades's giant swirling vortex
Pete starts to back away from Hades. Pain and Panic have already hidden behind a stone pillar
Hades forms a ball of fire in each hand and toss them into the abyss. There's a large explosion, causing a pillar of smoke to rise out of the hole. Lightning courses through the red smoke as a figure emerges. Hades laughs
Auron listens as he looks over to Pete, who is against the wall near Pain and Panic. Pete, still afraid and not knowing what else to do, simply waves at Auron
Auron raises his sword
Hades turns red in a blaze and charges toward Auron, who blocks with his sword. Sora, Donald, and Goofy run in
Hades gets distracted and his fire turns blue again
Auron knocks Hades back
They try to fight Hades
The two fireballs appear again and Hades charges the group. Auron slices down with his sword, but Hades teleports in a puff of smoke
Sora tries to charge, but Auron stops him. Hades makes fireballs again as Donald and Goofy run out of the room
Auron pulls Sora, who doesn't budge. Auron leaves Sora, who eventually runs as Hades throws the fireballs at them. They leave the chamber and run down the stairs. Sora and Goofy close the gates and try to catch their breath
Hades appears on their side of the door next to Sora
They hurry to the exit, evading Hades and the Heartless he conjures. When they reach the Inner Chamber of the Cave of the Dead, they catch their breath
Sora and Goofy look at each other
Donald jumps onto Sora's shoulders
Goofy also jumps onto Sora's shoulders
Sora can't hold them up, so they fall in a pile
Sora pushes Donald and Goofy off him
Sora starts to walk to the passageway. Auron slightly chuckles. Pete meets with Hades
Hades stops and turns around angrily, turning red
Pete jumps back
Hades slightly cools down and snaps his fingers. Hades's giant three-headed dog shows up in the window
The dog leaves in a hurry. Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Auron run to the entrance of the Cave of the Dead
Sora, Donald, and Goofy try to push apart the doors
Donald looks up and sees a keyhole chained to the door. The Keyblade appears in Sora's hand
Sora starts to point the Keyblade at the lock, when they hear a roar and look behind them
Auron readies his sword. Cerberus jumps into the entranceway. Sora unlocks the door and the keyhole and chains vanish. Donald and Goofy open the doors as Cerberus runs up to them. Auron stops them by shoving his sword between one of the dog's teeth. He holds them there, until pulling the sword out and knocking them away. Sora runs to the door, but turns around and sees Auron fighting alone
Sora runs back into the fray
The dogs roar and Sora and Auron fights them. Cerberus, nearly beaten, struggles to stand
Sora and Auron run through the gates, which start to close. Sora, Donald, and Goofy make faces at Cerberus, as it runs to the closing doors. Meg speaks to Hercules in the Coliseum Foyer
Meg sighs, seeing his tired condition
Hercules flexes his biceps and waves goodbye to Megara
He leaves into the Coliseum to cheering crowds
Sora, Donald, and Goofy stand in the Underworld Entrance
Donald and Goofy nod. Hades sits in his Chamber with Pete, Pain and Panic watching anxiously
Pete pounds his fist on the table making Pain and Panic jump
Pete looks annoyed. Hades chuckles, and Pete understands
Hades taps a finger on the arm of his chair
He snaps his fingers, and with a puff of smoke, a doll version of Meg appears in his hand. In the Foyer, Meg feels like she's being watched. Sora, Donald, and Goofy walk into the Coliseum Gates
Hercules walks down the steps closer to them. Meg appears in the doorway
Sora and Hercules lock hands
They enter the Coliseum Foyer
They enter the Coliseum and see Phil, who's not looking in their direction
Goofy is counting the words on his fingers. The three look at each other and laugh. Phil jumps around, and realizes who's laughing. He runs over to them
They think it over for a second
They're surprised at this. Sora scratches his head
They tell him
Sora smashes pots and collects the orbs that come out of them
Sora smashes more pots and collects the orbs. Hercules enters the Coliseum
Phil leaves
Donald looks at Goofy, who nods
They shake their heads
Hercules sighs
Hades appears and places a hand on Hercules's shoulder. He ducks away from Hades
Hades flicks Sora to the ground
Hercules sneaks behind Hades for a punch
Hades teleports behind Herc
Hercules whistles and a brilliant winged horse flies over the Coliseum walls, landing next to Hercules
Hercules is stopped from getting on Pegasus
Herc and Pegasus look angry. The horse flaps its wings and shakes its head
Hades vanishes in a puff of smoke. Herc crosses his arms
Donald shakes his head and glares at Goofy
Hercules puts his hands on Sora's shoulders
Sora nods. Pegasus trots over. Hercules pets him
The horse nods and flaps his wings. It flies into the air and over the Coliseum walls. Hercules sighs. Sora, Donald, and Goofy return to the Underworld Entrance and see Phil on the floor
Phil stands up, as Sora, Donald, and Goofy run over
Sora and Donald get out their weapons
Sora, Donald, and Goofy enter the Underworld Caverns as Hercules does battle with the Hydra. He strikes it with his sword. It lifts his head high into the air after a chop from the sword on it's head. It collapses to the ground on top of Hercules. Herc walks out from underneath it
Hercules runs back to the Foyer. After fighting a few Heartless, the three enter The Lost Road. Sora works out the kink in his shoulder
They continue into the Atrium, where the find the hooded man, who turns around to face them
He takes off his hood
Demyx pulls out a note
Demyx takes out the Olympus Stone
He holds the stone up and glows with light. He takes out his sitar and begins playing it
Demyx conjures water creatures and Sora defeats them all
Demyx holds his shoulder
He vanishes
Donald picks up the Olympus Stone that Demyx had dropped. He gives it to Sora, who holds it up. They glow with light and feel their power return
They enter The Lock, where they see a rock with an outline of Meg and a keyhole imprinted on it. Sora unlocks the gate and the rock vanishes. The pillar of energy behind the rock turns from black to light green
Sora enters the pillar of light and ends up in the Well of Captivity. Hades is there with a chained up Megara
Hades vanishes in a puff of smoke. Meg is distracted by something
Pete appears behind them with several Heartless. He laughs
Pete looks to his Heartless and points to Sora's group
Hook Bat Heartless charge at Sora, who bats them away with his Keyblade
Sora breaks Meg's chains with the Keyblade. Hercules arrives and knocks Pete down
He whistles. Pegasus flies in and hits Pete on the head as he tries to standing, knocking him over again. Hercules picks Meg up
Hercules places Meg on Pegasus's back
Herc pats Pegasus on the behind and he takes off with Meg. Sora, Donald, and Goofy run to the pillar of light as Pete gets up
Hercules blocks Pete. Pegasus flies out of the other side of the pillar of light back at The Lock
Pegasus flies away. Sora returns to the Underdrome, where Pete has gathered even more Heartless. He and Hercules nod to each other. Fighting Pete is a piece of cake for them
Pete leaves. The cave begins to collapse and they run for the pillar of light
The four race to the Underworld Entrance
Hercules takes a step forward
Hades vanishes in smoke
They run back to the Coliseum Gates
A large rock almost hits Sora as he enters. The Hydra roars out the smoke and rubble. Phil, Meg, and Pegasus approach Hercules. Phil shakes him
Hercules looks around to all the destruction. The great statues are sliced in half and the Coliseum is in ruins
Herc slams the ground
The Hydra is running rampant. Meg heaves Herc over her shoulder and carries him away as the Hydra walks over the rubble of the Foyer into the courtyard
Phil does a series of fighting moves. Meg and Pegasus join them, the horse making it's best fighting stance
The Hydra roars again. Sora fights until each of it's heads are cut off. Hercules's confidence is completely shot
Sora takes out the stone. Hercules weakly stands up. Before Hercules touches the stone, it glows brightly. Sora opens another gateway. In the dark tower in Hollow Bastion, Maleficent stands looking out past large spinning cogs
She turns around to face Pete
Queen Minnie stands in the Library of Disney Castle as several brooms walk around doing chores
Chip and Dale run in as the Queen faces away from the books
Chip and Dale lead Minnie to the Hall of the Cornerstone, where the Queen is amazed at what she sees
Sora, Donald, and Goofy pilot their ship, ironically, to Disney Castle and dock in the Gummi Hangar.
Donald and Goofy look around
Chip hops up onto the launch control ledge and jumps at seeing Sora, Donald, and Goofy. Dale jumps up and bumps into Chip, knocking him onto the next ledge. They both jump in the air, then slide down the slanting ledge to the group
They walk through the exit and up the winding stairs into the courtyard, and enter the door into the colonnade. Fighting loads of Heartless down the hall, they arrive in the Library and speak to Queen Minnie
Donald pulls Sora's ear
She shakes her head and they sigh
The three salute her. The Queen gasps
Minnie giggles
Donald and Goofy leave the Library
They hurry back into the colonnade and reach the immense doors to the audience chamber, which are magically locked
Minnie holds up her hand
The magical barrier breaks apart and the room is unlocked. A small door appears through the larger one
They enter the large audience chamber, which is completely empty, until a horde of Bolt Tower Heartless float down from the ceiling
They race across the chamber, dodging the Heartless, reaching the throne. The Heartless are relentless
Minnie hurriedly reaches beneath the arm of the throne and presses a button. There is a loud rumbling and the throne starts to move
The throne recedes with a flash of light and the Heartless are gone. The floor contains a set of stairs to a lower room
Sora follows the Queen down into the Hall of the Cornerstone and sees the unbelievable mass of thorns surrounding the walls. A giant ball of swirling light stands in the middle of the room
A burst of green flames appears before the Queen and an image of Maleficent appears
Donald leaps to attack but flies right through her
Maleficent bows
She touches the Cornerstone of Light, but it rejects her hand
She disappears and cackles evilly
They fly to Hollow Bastion and enter Merlin's House
Merlin appears behind them
As Donald is talking, Merlin transports them all to the Hall of the Cornerstone, where Minnie is waiting
Donald notices he's back in Disney Castle
Merlin walks over to Minnie and the Cornerstone of Light
The wizard clears his throat. He waves his arms and a door appears
Sora walks over to the door and places his hand on the handles
Sora opens the door after a small struggle and walks in. On the other side, the door jumps around making several honks and whistles, before spitting the three out onto the ground. Goofy shakes his head
Sora walks over to it
Captain Pete walks behind Sora in the direction of the Pier, but stops when he sees the three
Sora, Donald, and Goofy all point to Captain Pete
He walks off to the Pier
Donald and Goofy nod and they enter the Pier. Captain Pete is standing on the dock
They hear a boat whistle
He starts walking toward Cornerstone Hill, when Sora, Donald, and Goofy block his way
They fight Captain Pete, who ends up sitting on the ground
They hear the boat whistle again
He stands up too quickly and his back cracks. He falls over again
He waves his fist and his back cracks again
Captain Pete stands up
His back cracks again
He falls over again. The three walk back to Cornerstone Hill
An odd window with a curtain floats in midair nearby. They walk over to it
Donald pulls the drawstring on the side and opens the curtains. They see a video of four small doors around the Cornerstone of Light, with a different pair of Heartless in front of each one. The doors open and the Heartless enter, another door bouncing in the background. Sora, Donald and Goofy are thrown out of the bouncing door, landing on the ground.
Sora walks over to it
The video ends with a flash and the curtains shutting
Donald pulls the drawstring again, but nothing happens. They see the four doors the Heartless had gone through
Sora, Donald, and Goofy enter a door with a construction building symbol on it and arrive at a Building Site
A Hammer Frame Heartless falls from a beam above. Mickey swings down on a rope and knocks the Heartless away
Mickey waves to them from a beam up above
They see several more Hammer Frame Heartless on the top beams
The Heartless fall down to their platform
They manage to defeat the Heartless before the scaffolding falls
Mickey ran over to Sora, shook his hand, waved, and ran off
Another curtain window was hanging on the corner of the scaffolding. Donald pulls the drawstring and they see Maleficent in the dark tower in Hollow Bastion talking to Pete
She begins to walk away
She leaves
Sora, Donald, and Goofy return to Cornerstone Hill
They enter a door with a symbol of someone being tied down. They step into a town called Lilliput which is slightly too small
They see a tall tower with cannons sticking out of it
They walk over to the tower and see Mickey jumping up and down
Several Aeroplane Heartless flies into the sky
They defeat the giant heartless while protecting the town
Mickey runs over to Sora, shakes his hand, waves, and runs away again
They see yet another curtained window. Donald pulls the drawstring and they see a video of Pete
Pete looks down
A white door appears behind Pete and he turns around
Pete walks closer to the door and opens it. Bright light pours out of it
Sora, Donald, and Goofy return to Cornerstone Hill
They enter a door with a fire symbol on it and find a burning building wobbling around in mayhem. They hear fire engine sirens
Mickey runs out and tries to protect the building from more flames
They defeat the Heartless there while protecting the building. The flames inside die down and the building stops moving. Mickey runs to Sora, shakes his hand, waves, and runs off again
They see another curtained window. Donald pulls on the drawstring and they see Pete speaking with Maleficent in front of the door
She looks back at the open door
Sora, Donald, and Goofy leave the Scene of the Fire
They enter a door with a symbol of a house on it and find a large black hole in the middle of a living room. It starts pulling in much of the furniture. Mickey runs in and tries to find a way to stop it from completely overtaking his house
Rapid Thruster Heartless appear and Mickey runs away. They protect the furniture as the defeat the Heartless. Mickey shakes Sora's hand, waves, and runs away again
They see another curtained window floating in front of the fireplace. Donald pulls on it's drawstring and they see Maleficent and Pete again
Pete nods
Pete looks from the door back to Maleficent
She turns to leave
Pete's ears perk up
He laughs
He opens the door. Sora, Donald, and Goofy are back at Cornerstone Hill
Donald sees Pete near the sign to the Waterway
Pete laughs
Pete runs to the Waterway
They see that something important is missing
Captain Pete runs through Cornerstone Hill in the direction of the Waterway
The Captain saunters to the Waterway
They follow both Petes into the Waterway, where they're fighting over the steamboat. The Cornerstone of Light is in a cage on the raft it's tugging behind
Pete shoves the Captain away
Pete punches Captain Pete, who goes flying
Pete jumps onto the cage
The steamboat begins to float down the river, blowing smoke out of its stacks. Pete salutes them and laughs
Sora readies his Keyblade
Pete sends tons of garbage flying towards Sora, Donald, and Goofy
They manage to break open the cage and spill Pete into the water
Pete surfaces right next to the raft
The raft hits him and he's knocked underwater. The steamboat stops moving
Pete climbs out of the water and shakes it off. He looks back to the boat, then sighs and runs to the Wharf
They run to the Wharf and find Pete in a fight against Captain Pete. Pete punches the captain, who's knocked to ground, grabbing his face
Captain Pete blasts through Donald and Goofy, heading straight for Pete. They manage to finish off Pete
Pete stands up
He huffs away, stops, and holds out his arms. The door appears in the air and falls to the ground
Pete opens the door to leave
Sora runs to the closed door and locks it with the Keyblade
Goofy covers Sora's mouth before the last three words
Sora and Goofy chuckle
The steamboat charges down the Timeless River towing the Cornerstone of Light with Sora at the helm. Donald jumps to blow the whistle, as Mickey lazily taps his foot at the back of the raft. They return the Cornerstone of Light to the hill
Sora and Goofy grab Donald and drag him to the door
They swing and toss Donald into the doorway back to Disney Castle and walk in themselves. The Hall of the Cornerstone has become white again and the thorns shine with a bright light and vanish
Donald falls out of the door into the room, followed by Sora and Goofy
Sora and Goofy giggle. Daisy Duck peeks into the room
Daisy walks in
Daisy turns on Donald
Donald looks to Sora and Goofy for help
Donald looks over at the door, and snickers
He runs to the door
He loosens Daisy's grip and runs away
Daisy chases him around the room, while everyone else has a nice laugh
They stop to see that Sora's Keyblade is glowing, as is the Cornerstone of Light. Sora opens another gate
At night after a storm, a mermaid named Ariel swims to the surface. She jumps in and out of the water before gazing upwards at the moon
Some driftwood floats in front of her and she sees a man resting halfway in the water a few feet away. She gasps and swims to save him. After successfully bringing him to shore, she admires him, as he's a human
She brushes her hand against his cheek and he slightly opens his eyes before she finishes singing. She noticed his regaining consciousness and quickly swims back into the water. The man drifts away again. Later, he wakes up and stands up
Two moray eels watch in the water. Sora pilots the Gummi Ship through Splash Island and into the sea. They enter the water with a burst of magic, scaring away a school of fish
Ariel, Flounder, and Sebastian swim into the Undersea Courtyard
Ariel swims around him
Flounder swims off. Sora swims to Flounder
After a few more swimming reminders...
Sora dances for a little bit, then spins around with his arms outstretched and a smile on his face
Donald dances and spins around, with his arm outstretched
Goofy also dances as much a turtle can dance, and spins around happily
Sora dances with Ariel, who spins around him. They both pose
Bubbles form out of a hot air tube and pop on cue
Chapter One: Swim This Way
Sebastian strikes up the band
Sora and Ariel dance inside the center shell on stage
Sora and Ariel cross their hands over their heads and spread them out wide
Ariel grabs Sora and they swim upwards
A brightly lit outershell opens revealing a smaller shell, that rises up above the stage
Ariel shows off the shell. Sora taps the shell, and it opens, revealing a dancing manta ray
A pod of dolphins swim in
The dolphins swim in a circle in unison around the stalactite chandelier, slowly making the circle smaller, then swimming out from it
Sora sends out two balls of lightning, which light up the chandelier
Some jellyfish do the wave back and forth as angelfish swim past
Donald dances next to an octopus. Goofy bops next to Flounder. An octopus plays drums, while the blowfish are on horns
Ariel dances in front of stage light. She twirls around and poses
Sora swims to the center of a few bubbles, which pop on cue. Sora flips around and swims off
Donald, Goofy, and Flounder dance inside shells, as the band plays
The octopus drums on cue
Sora and Ariel swim toward each other
They touch, dive, and spin
Sora and Ariel turn around each other, dancing, and pose
Sebastian joins Sora and Ariel in the middle shell
Everyone poses toward Ariel, who has her arms outstretched, as the song ends
Ariel giggles, then swims away as King Triton arrives
The King nods
Prince Eric walks along the beach
He starts to wade into the water
Sebastian swims up to Ariel
Ariel swims away
They follow Flounder to a sunken ship area
They see a sunken ship with a large statue underneath it
Sora, Donald, and Goofy try to lift the rock off the statue
They use Magnet to get the statue out from beneath the rock. Near the sunken ship area, Ariel sighs
Chapter Two: Part of Your World
They proceed to Ariel's Grotto, where Ariel sees the large statue of Prince Eric
Ariel swims up to it
Sebastian holds his head
She picks up a fork and places it into a candlestick
Sora swims over to a globe and around it
Goofy sees a jewelry box and opens it. The gems inside shine brightly and Goofy spins around
Donald finds a jack-in-the-box
Donald knocks on the jack-in-the-box and a clown pops out, scaring him. Ariel swims up to Flounder with a box
She opens the box and show him the bottle openers
She closes the box and puts it down. Swims upwards
She finds a music box with a dancing couple. She gazes at it dreamily
She spins the couple as if they're dancing
He spins around
She touches his hind fins
She flies upwards
She reaches up her hand to the light reaching down through the grotto
She floats down to the statue and looks up at the sunlight
Ariel stares at the statue. Sebastian meets with King Triton, but stays at the entrance to the Throne Room
Sebastian swims up to the King
King Triton looks at him sternly
Sebastian swims out of the room. Sora, Donald, and Goofy return to the Undersea Courtyard. Ariel is even more infatuated with the human world
Sebastian swims up with a scroll in his claw
They unravel the scroll and look at the sheet music
Chapter Three: Under the Sea
Sebastian drums on a few bongo shells and starts up the hot crustacean band. He points to Sora, who swims in among fish
Sebastian swims over to Ariel
Ariel looks away
Fish swim in and spin around Ariel. Sebastian grabs onto one
The fish makes a sharp turn and knocks Sebastian into a wall
Sora spins around. Ariel looks from Flounder and moves to the other side of the pillar, looking unhappy
A dolphin swims in
An octopus and several fish dance along
The crab hops to the center rock and poses. Ariel's mood lifts
A manta ray swims up to Donald and they dance together
He plays his bongo shells again. Sora spins and swims around. Bubbles pop on cue
Ariel grabs the tail of a swimming dolphin, lets go, and spins
Sora slaps his Keyblade on a hot spring. It bubbles and spouts
Ariel spins upward near the spring
A snail plays on his shell horn. Sora dances with Ariel
Donald dances with an octopus. Sora laughs
Sebastian jumps down past the soaring Ariel and Sora
Sebastian grabs onto a jellyfish and swims up with it
Sora and Ariel show off Sebastian, who's on the center rock, as the music ends
Sebastian gasps
Ariel leaves
Sora, Donald, and Goofy swim after her
Sebastian gasps
Sebastian turns around and sees an angry King Triton. Ariel swims to the surface, Sora, Donald, and Goofy right behind her
Prince Eric is walking toward the beach
Eric walks away from the beach, dropping something shiny
The necklace floats in the water between two rocks. Ariel swims to the rocks
Donald helps retrieve the pendant with Magnera
Chapter Four: Ursula's Revenge
In Ariel's Grotto, she admires the pendant
He holds the trident with both hands
The trident glows. Ariel tries to stop him
He sends out a blast of energy from the trident, which completely destroys the statue. A rock flies right past Donald. Ariel can't meet her father's face and swims out. Sora and company follow her. In the Undersea Courtyard, Ursula appears to her
Ariel starts to swim away
Sebastian and Flounder swim in and see them
Flounder turns around, but is stopped by Flotsam and Jetsam
Ariel is still thinking it over
Ursula swims back over to her and a contract and pen appear with a flick of her wrist
She hesitantly, but quickly grabs the pen and writes her name, while looking away. The pen disappears and the contract flies back into Ursula's hands
Sora, Donald, and Goofy swim in
Ursula creates a large wind tunnel, blocking Sora from them. Ariel's voice glows and floats out of her mouth. She clutches her neck. Her voice travels into the shell in Ursula's hands. Sebastian and Flounder gasp. Sora braves the wind tunnel before it dissipates, and they see Ariel with legs trying to swim to the surface for air
Sora grabs her arms and pulls her upwards. Ursula laughs as they swim to the surface. Prince Eric walks to the shore and sees Ariel lying half in the water. He runs to her
She opens her eyes and sees him looking down at her. She stands up, trying to gain her balance. He catches her and she falls into him
They look into each other's eyes. Ariel checks herself, and tries to speak, but can't. She touches a hand to her throat
She looks out into the ocean. Sora, Donald, and Goofy are there. She jumps to distract him from seeing them. She remembers the pendant and holds it out to him
Ariel smiles
Ariel nods and places it in his hand
He looks at it, then back to her
She tries to walk. He catches her again and leads her back to his palace. Sora, Donald, and Goofy swim back to the Undersea Courtyard
Sora and Sebastian decide to go check on Ariel. Ariel and Prince Eric walk along the seashore
Eric and Ariel talk for hours on the beach. At night, Flounder and Sebastian are still watching them. They're there when the two arrive on the beach the next day. Eric takes Ariel on a rowboat as Flounder watches. Sora, Donald, and Goofy arrive
Sora sees that Eric and Ariel are about to kiss and covers Flounder's eyes
Before they kiss, the boat is rocked by Flotsam and Jetsam and Ariel falls into him
They swim below again. Nearly sunset on the next day, they ascend out of the water
Flounder is with Ariel, who's crying on the beach. They swim up to them
Eric walks in with another girl. The prince has an odd glaze in his eyes
Sora, Donald, and Goofy make themselves less noticeable
They see a shell on Vanessa's necklace
He gets out his Keyblade and shoots a beam at the necklace. It falls to the ground and shatters, startling Vanessa. Ariel's voice returns to her and she gasps. Prince Eric's eyes return to normal
He runs to her
They look over and gasp
The sun has nearly set
Ursula grabs Ariel and dives into the water
Sora, Donald, and Goofy descend underwater. Ursula swims down dragging Ariel, who's become a mermaid again
She holds up the contract in a tentacle
Ursula grabs Ariel and holds a tentacle up to her cheek
Triton blasts the contract with his trident. Ursula goes cascading toward a rock, but the contract doesn't break
Flotsam and Jetsam grab Ariel
She holds up the contract
Triton's trident glows
King Triton signs his name on the contract. Ursula laughs as Triton is reduced to a shriveled monster. Ursula picks up the dropped trident
A sharp wooden stick just nicks Ursula in the arm. She yells and looks to see Prince Eric
Ursula sends Flotsam and Jetsam after him, but Sora blocks
The trident glows
Flounder and Sebastian watch in horror as smoke spreads everywhere. Ariel swims to the surface after Eric. Eric and Ariel huddle on the surface of the dark water as bubble appear around them. Their magnitude grows as Ursula blasts out of the water directly beneath them, splitting them from each other. They huddle again as the sea witch rises above the water, towering over them. She holds the trident in her hand and smiles evilly
The points of her tentacles reach the surface, sending water everywhere. Ariel and Eric swim away. Ursula raises the trident
Sora, Donald, and Goofy come up out of the water
The two moray eels circle them. Sora dives underwater
(The eels strike and capture Sora
Donald knocks an eel off of Sora. Goofy slams the other one
They swim away, but Sora follows them Ursula singing Crush those stupid fools, make them writhe! (Sora, Donald, and Goofy dodge Ursula's tentacles. Sora swims through the eels, and obliterates them with his Keyblade
Ursula swings her trident over the water. Eric tries to swim away
A tentacle knocks him out of the water. He lands in his boat and looks back at the sea witch
Ursula looks to Ariel
Ursula moves the trident over the water, but Ariel ducks underwater
Sora, Donald, and Goofy fly over the boat. Sora sends a beam at Ursula with his Keyblade, but she blocks with the trident
She tries to hit Donald and Goofy with her Keyblade, but they dodge, still flying for her head. Goofy hits her in the forehead, while Donald gets her chin.
(Donald and Goofy fall back into the water
Sora jumps out of the water and waves at her
Ursula gasps and swings the trident around to hit him. Donald and Goofy come out of the water again. They descend as the trident swings around. The trident surges with lightning in Ursula's hand
He knocks the trident out of her hand, as she tries to hit him. It swings through the air and lands on Eric's boat
He lands back in the water
He throws it at her, shooting right through. Ursula screams in pain and sinks into the water. Things return to normal
Ariel doesn't move
She dives underwater, and jumps through the air, showing him that she has fins again. She rises to the surface
Eric jumps into the water and swims to her
They embrace
King Triton swims away. Sora, Donald, and Goofy meet in the Undersea Courtyard
Ariel and Flounder arrive
She swims up to the surface
The crab whispers his idea to Sora, Donald, and Goofy
After checking Thundaga, they speak to Sebastian again
Chapter Five: A New Day is Dawning
The stage is ready. Sebastian swims up to his sheet music and taps his wand on the book. The curtain of bubbles dissipates and three shells rise from below. The right and left shells open and Atina and Andrina are inside each
The center shell opens and inside is a dancing manta ray
Atina flips around. Andrina swims across the stage and twirls around. They start to dance together
Another shell rises above the stage and the princesses show it off. It opens, revealing Ariel
Atina and Andrina join her
The three sisters swim upward
Atina and Andrina swim around Ariel and swim offstage
Sora, Donald, and Goofy swim in, spinning around
Sora swims and flips to the center shell. Atina and Andrina swim around Ariel
Atina swims around a pillar, and her and Andrina come out the other side
King Triton swims in on a sleigh, tugged by three dolphins
Flounder flips around as the King rides over the stage
Atina and Andrina swim into the orchestra pit and make a circle around Sebastian and Flounder
A manta ray swims in with red fish and glowing jellyfish
Andrina and Donald swim to the right shell
Atina and Goofy swim to the left shell
Sora and Ariel swim over the center shell
Sora and Ariel spin around in the center shell, and everyone poses to thunderous applause. They bow as a curtain of bubbles comes up
Sora opens another gateway
They swim around Ariel, who smiles. Then, they return to their Gummi Ship. Sora pilots the Gummi Ship through Floating Island to a port town in the Caribbean
They walk through the Rampart and hear screams coming from the town
Pete is talking to several pirates
The moon comes out from behind a cloud. The pirates change into their cursed skeletal forms
They lose their skeletal forms as the moon disappears
Sora, Donald, and Goofy run into the Harbor
The pirates split in different directions, some staying behind
Barbossa laughs. They try to fight, but their attacks aren't hurting the pirates
The moonlight transforms them again
They defeat the pirates and confront Pete
Pete leaves
Donald and Goofy look surprised
They run into Town. The governor's daughter is being carried off by a pirate. She angrily beats on his back to be let go
A blacksmith sees the girl being taken away
He runs after them
He is stopped by Heartless
Sora, Donald, and Goofy get ready to fight
Will runs ahead to save Elizabeth. Sora and company fight the Heartless. Will returns
They run to the harbor, but the Black Pearl has already left Port Royal
They see Jack Sparrow climbing aboard the Interceptor
Jack appears on the deck
Jack contemplates his plan
Sora, Will, Donald, and Goofy climb aboard the Interceptor as Jack descends the ramp
They cast off. Barbossa offers to have dinner with Elizabeth
Barbossa holds up the gold medallion between his fingers
Barbossa stands up
He walks to the window and looks out at the waves
He turns around to face her
Elizabeth gasps and runs out of the room, slamming the doors open. The undead pirates are waiting for her on deck
He approaches Elizabeth, and enters the moonlight, turning skeletal before her eyes
He laughs and opens a bottle of wine, tossing the cork to the floor. He takes a long swig, the drink pouring down between his bones. Jack Sparrow sets a course for the Black Pearl
Jack closes the compass and puts it away
The Interceptor docks at the Rock Face at Isla De Muerta
He and Will turn towards the entrance
Jack and Will enter the cave. Sora, Donald, and Goofy return to the Interceptor and wait
Jack and Will sneak into the Moonlight Nook and see Barbossa and the other pirates upon mountains of treasure. Elizabeth stands frightened behind a large chest. Barbossa holds up the medallion
Sora, Donald, and Goofy enter the Cave Mouth. Will and Elizabeth run out of the Powder Store
Pirates come running through the cave
Will and Elizabeth run to the Interceptor. Sora, Donald, and Goofy fight off the pirates for one minute before the signal flare shoots up into the sky from the ship
They run out of the cave back to the Interceptor
In the Moonlight Nook, Barbossa turns to Elizabeth, who's standing behind the chest
Will is anxious to save Elizabeth and looks for a way to secretly get her out of there
Jack stands very close to Will
Jack walks off, but is hit in the back of the head by an oar. He slumps to the ground. Will tosses the oar to the ground. Barbossa grabs Elizabeth's hand and slices a fair cut on her palm. He presses the pirate medallion to her skin, staining it with her blood
The gold piece drops into the chest with the other medallions. Barbossa waits with his arms outstretched for any sign of change. Nothing happens and he forcefully grabs Elizabeth's arm
Barbossa knocks Elizabeth over the pile of treasure, dropping the medallion
Elizabeth grabs the medallion and Will finds her
They run out of the Moonlight Nook behind the pirates. Barbossa sees Will carrying the medallion
Back on the Interceptor
They set sail to return to Port Royal. Will and Elizabeth are in the Ship's Hold
Will sees the medallion in Elizabeth's hand
She hands him back the medallion
Will paces away from her
On the Black Pearl, Jack is tied up between Barbossa and the pirates
Barbossa laughs
The Bo'sun pushes Jack, who doesn't move. He keeps pushing him, and Jack just looks at him
Aboard the Interceptor, the wind blows through Elizabeth's hair and she notices something in the distance
Will, Sora, and Goofy rush over to see what she's pointing at. It's the Black Pearl
A cannon is shot
The Interceptor is hit by the cannon and everyone loses their balance. Will falls backwards over the edge of the ship. He grabs hold of a small ledge, but loses his grip and falls into the water. Elizabeth runs to the edge of the ship
They hear another cannon shot
The cannon hits the Interceptor again and everyone falls over. Sora sees the pirate medallion and picks it up
The Interceptor turns around and runs alongside the Black Pearl. Several pirates jump aboard. Sora clenches the medallion as he simultaneously fights the pirates and returns fire with the cannons. Afterward, the Black Pearl is left in a smoky haze
Sora turns around and sees Barbossa, Elizabeth, Jack, the bo'sun, and a few pirates
Jack giggles nervously. More pirates arrive
Will aims a pistol at the pirate captain
Will points the gun at his own head
Barbossa is surprised
Jack tries to get Will's attention to set him free
Jack sighs. Barbossa bows
Pete laughs and Sora sees that he has taken hold of Will, knocking him out with an oar. Several Air Pirate Heartless appear. Pete, with Will in hand, runs off
Sora, Donald, Goofy, Elizabeth, and Jack are confined to the Ship's Hold
Barbossa and Pete leave the Interceptor
Jack cuts his ropes with his knife and stands up
After being untied, they race to the deck, where there are five kegs of gunpowder close to explosion. Sora quickly knocks each one into the water
Jack runs to the helm
They return to Isla de Muerta
They run into the cave. In the Treasure Heap, Barbossa and the other pirates stand around the chest
He points a knife at Will
The pirates cheer. Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Jack run in
Sora, Donald, and Goofy fight the pirates. Jack takes care of his own business
They hear the clang of sword and see that Jack and Barbossa have crossed swords
As he's distracted, Barbossa plunges his sword into him. Sora gasps
Jack stumbles back into a patch of moonlight and his skeletal form is revealed. Jack holds his hand up and looks at it. His other hand contains a pirate medallion, which he rolls on his knuckles
Pete appears
Pete whistles and an Illuminator Heartless crawls down on the walls, its eyes glowing and its tongue lolling about. It hops from rock to rock and moves behind Barbossa on the rock wall. They fight the pirate captain. Pete looks worried
Barbossa's sword is drawn
Jack drops his sword and takes out his pistol
Jack tosses the medallion and shoots Barbossa with the only bullet left in his pistol. Barbossa laughs
Will, holding the knife, drops the two medallions he has in his hand, stained with blood, onto the large pile in the chest. Barbossa is lifted of the curse
The pirate falls to the ground. Later, they leave the cave
Will holds out a hand to shake Jack's hand, but Jack flinches with his arms over his head
Jack backs away, then looks in her direction as Elizabeth runs toward them
Jack opens his arms but she runs right past him and hugs Will
Goofy points. Sora covers his face
Goofy and Donald laugh. Jack takes out his compass and it glows brightly as he opens it. It floats into the air, and Sora opens another gateway with his Keyblade
Sora pilots the Gummi Ship through the Ancient Highway and lands in an Arabian city. An orange parrot flies through the streets and lands on a wall as Sora, Donald, and Goofy walk in
The parrot flies into the air in their direction
The parrot flies up to them and around Goofy
Sora and Donald whirl around and take out their weapons
He lands on the ground
Goofy catches Iago in his hands
Some Luna Bandit Heartless sneak up behind them
They fight wave of Heartless
Two run after Iago, who flies into the air, knocking the Heartless into each other. Iago flies into an urn and knocks it over. He flies past some crates, which crash on top of the Heartless
They run into a sidestreet, Iago following, and end up inside the Peddler's Shop
Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Iago proceed to the Palace Gates and find Princess Jasmine
Sora and Goofy also bow. Jasmine giggles
Iago peeks out from behind Goofy, waves, and hides again
Iago flies around Sora and hides behind him
Jasmine has already run off to the gates of the palace. Sora sighs
They walk back into town
A monkey carrying a black oil lamp runs past Sora, Donald, and Goofy. Aladdin runs in afterward
The Peddler races after them
Iago flies after them, as Sora, Donald, and Goofy try to catch up. Aladdin and Abu reach a wall. Abu clutches the lamp tightly
Abu gives Aladdin the lamp
The Peddler snatches it out of Aladdin's hand with a huff and walks away
Abu covers his head with his arms, until seeing Sora, to whom he runs
Abu tries to make an excuse
They laugh
Iago is on the ground, shivering
Abu grabs his hat and squawks
They return to the Peddler's Shop
Sora looks to the entrance and Aladdin gives him a signal
They leave the Peddler's Shop
They proceed to the Cave of Wonders. Pete enters the tiger's head before they arrive
They enter the cave, passing through the Valley of Stone. They arrive at an area with waterfalls on each side. A jewel floats in midair in the center of the hall. Abu jumps off Aladdin's shoulder and grabs the jewel. The waterfalls vanish and several stone guardians appear from the walls, their eyes glowing. Ice crystals appear in the air above Abu and he runs around dodging them. Sora guides Abu over the moving floor to set the stone in the pedestal and soothe the wrath of the Stone Guardians. The pedestal at the end of the hall vanishes into dust and an entrance is opened. They enter the Chasm of Challengers and see a stone plaque
Sora activates it and they fall through several floors fighting Heartless. On the final floor, a set of stairs appears with a temple and another plaque
The doors to the Treasure Room open and they are greeted with mountains of treasure. They see a jeweled trophy
Pete walks in and sees them. He hides and peeks out at them
Pete's ear perks up at the mention of the lamp and he snickers
Abu and Iago try to hoist up a jeweled statue
He stamps his foot yelling and they drop it. The jewel then entices Donald
Donald shakes his head vigorously. Pete leaves with a smile on his face and a plan in his head. He snaps his fingers and Heartless appear in the Treasure Room, which has grown darker
They fight the Heartless and the room lights back up
They run out of the Cave of Wonders and return to the Peddler's Shop
They hear two voices from outside
They leave the shop and see Pete chasing the Peddler
They chase them to the Palace Gates. Pete catches up to the Peddler
He grabs the lamp from the Peddler's hands and runs ahead. The Peddler catches back up to Pete
The Peddler grabs it back and keeps running. Pete realizes it's gone and runs faster. They chase each other around the courtyard
Pete grabs the Peddler and takes the lamp, holding the Peddler down with one hand. The Peddler tries to jump, but can't
Iago flies in and snatches the lamp away. Pete's ears perk up and he realizes his hand's lighter. He looks up and sees no lamp. The Peddler has caught on and tries to jump at Iago to get the lamp, but he's too short
Pete and the Peddler both chase Iago, who turns swiftly. They both crash into a wall. The Peddler falls to the ground. Pete rubs his head and turns to see Iago. Iago looks back and also crashes into a wall, dropping the lamp. Iago tries to get up, but can't. Pete picks up the lamp and laughs
The ground shakes and a large blue something flies around in the sky
He flies past Pete
Genie flies back and hugs Pete
Genie teleports back into the air
He places an arm on Pete's shoulder, then teleports and places his other arm on Pete's other shoulder
Genie shakes Pete, then comedically rubs his eyes. He's still completely oblivious to Aladdin, Sora, Donald, Goofy, Iago, or the Peddler
Genie grows several feet wider, then teleports right to Pete's face. Pete is completely disheveled
Genie spins around and a second Genie appears
The two Genies hug and fireworks shoot out from behind them. One makes a heart shape in the sky. Genie appears again next to Pete
He slaps a hand on Pete's back, slightly hard. Genie next to Pete, but a smaller version of him
Genie poofs big again and shakes both of Pete's hands. Pete has almost lost his balance. Aladdin walks up
Genie looks from Aladdin to Pete and lets go
Pete is snapped back into reality
Genie picks Aladdin up, laughs, and hugs him
Pete slams his fist on the ground. A large geyser appears and destroys a wooden cart. The Blizzard Lord Heartless appears. Bushes lining the courtyard burst into flame as the Volcanic Lord Heartless rises up. They engage in a battle
Pete leaves. Genie hugs Aladdin
He gives Aladdin a thumbs up, which he returns. Carpet flies in with Abu on him. Iago follows with the lamp. In the dungeon, they place the lamp in a stone coffin and close it. They meet up with Jasmine in front of the palace
Genie spins around and disappears in a tornado of magic
Abu runs in with a large red jewel
Abu stops suddenly, when Sora, Donald, and Goofy all jump for him. They crash on top of the little monkey, who loses the jewel
Donald snatches the jewel away and looks at it
Donald stares transfixed
Donald shakes it off
He makes that he's about to throw it, and everyone looks, while he puts it behind his back. Abu sees it and squawks, alerting everyone else
The jewel glows
Sora opens another gate
Aladdin gives them a thumbs up. They look toward the sky. In a dark city, neon lights brighten an alleyway where a dog is wandering through. The dog sees a red-haired man in a black cloak and follows him around the corner. Pluto runs up to Axel as he disappears. Pluto hears a whistle and another portal appears behind him, which he runs inside. Kairi waits on the beach of the Destiny Islands, looking at the small island she used to play on
Axel appears near the water
Axel holds out his hand
Pluto barks, snapping Kairi back to reality. The dog bounds over and barks, spinning in circles and wagging his tail. Dusks surround them and Pluto snarls. They hear a whistle and a portal opens. Pluto leaps towards it, stops, and turns around. He barks at Kairi
The Dusks are closing in on her. She decides to run into the portal
Kairi and Pluto arrive in a strange abyss with Nobody symbols in every direction moving along the walls and floor
They hear another whistle and see a bright light at the end of the abyss. Pluto runs inside it. Kairi enters and looks back, seeing a cloaked figure. The portal of light closes before she can find out more. She wakes up laying on the floor
She groans and sits up. She is in the Usual Spot
She sees Hayner, Pence, Olette, and Pluto
Sora pilots the Gummi Ship through the Broken Highway to a land of holidays. Jack Skellington walks through a dark forest, his pet, Zero, trailing behind. He comes to a clearing. Several trees are adorned with various doors. The center one depicts a Christmas Tree. Jack turns the golden doorknob and swings open the door. He leans against the tree and looks in. A small breeze carrying snowflakes wafts from inside the tree. However, Jack sees nothing inside. The wind wraps around Jack and pulls him into the tree. Sora, Donald, and Goofy arrive at a signpost attached to a scarecrow with a pumpkin head. The sign reads Halloween Town
Donald looks over to the entrance into town. It's decorated in orange Christmas lights. Goofy looks as well. Sora looks at Donald, and then to the entrance. Zero flies in and scares Goofy, who scares Donald and Sora
Zero flies into town and they follow. They enter Halloween Town Square and see a long launchpad
They hear the sound of bells
Jack flies down in a trashcan sleigh led by three skeletal reindeer
He makes a scary face, which to him doesn't seem up to his standards
Jack stands up on the edge of the fountain
They look around the Square and see the guillotine, a jack in the box, a scary duck with teeth, and the reindeer, which squawk. Donald and Goofy shiver
Jack walks to Dr. Finkelstein's Lab
In the Lab, Dr. Finkelstein is working on his latest creation with Lock, Shock, and Barrel. The doctor opens his head and scratches his brain. Jack enters gleefully
He slams his head shut and turns around in his wheelchair. He rides it over to the table. Lock, Shock, and Barrel carry over a machine part as Sally enters
They throw the part onto the table. It sparks and pulses with electricity, then exploded. Sora and Jack cover their faces. The table is covered with smoke. Lock, Shock, and Barrel take off their masks and laugh. They start to leave, Barrel tripping, and they put their masks back on as they run past Sally
He pats her shoulder and starts to leave
Jack leaves
He thinks
Jack returns, snapping Sora out of his daze
Donald taps his foot. Sora looks over at him
They leave the lab and see several Wight Knight Heartless and The Mayor
Jack walks up to him
They successfully get rid of the Heartless
Lock, Shock, and Barrel ride their walking bathtub into the Graveyard
They come across a woman in black holding a staff
Maleficent lifts her arm and conjures up magic threateningly. The three are scared and shrink close together in their bathtub, shivering
Back in Halloween Town Square, Jack is getting them prepared
They pass through the Graveyard and into the Hinterlands. They see the area with doors on the trees
Sora is getting anxious
Jack opens the door. Sora runs and jumps inside. Donald and Goofy look in after him, watching him fall. They look at each other and jump in. They're transported to Christmas Town. Sora comes out of the tree on the Yuletide Hill. Donald falls on top of him, and Goofy on top of him. Sora pushes them off and looks down to the city below
Jack appears
They walk into Candy Cane Lane and Heartless appear
They defeat the Heartless
Sora and Donald nod
They enter Santa's House, where Mr. Claus is looking over his list. A few elves are walking about
They walk closer
Sora holds his head
Santa checks his list and smiles
They hear a smash from inside the Toy Factory
They follow Santa into the factory
Maleficent disappears, as Barrel swings a clamp through the window. Jack sees them and gasps. The three miscreants leave through the window
He starts to walk back to his house
They leave Santa's House and see footprints going all the way up Yuletide Hill. They follow them back to the Graveyard. Maleficent is standing at the base of Curly Hill with Lock, Shock, and Barrel in their walking bathtub
In a torrent of green flame, Maleficent works her magic as Lock, Shock, and Barrel have a laugh. Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Jack continue through the Graveyard. Back in at Curly Hill, Oogie Boogie has returned
She turns her back to him
She gets no response, and looks back toward him. Oogie is slumped forward, not moving
She waves her staff and Oogie disappears. She follows suit
The Prison Keeper Heartless appears, as Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Jack enter Curly Hill
Lock, Shock, and Barrel jump into the Heartless's cage. The Heartless closes it with a bony finger
They defeat the Heartless
They all nod. Santa Claus has entered the Hinterlands
He looks around and sees nothing but bare trees
He gasps and she walks out from behind a tree
Maleficent and Oogie Boogie watch them from a distance
They laugh
Oogie Boogie runs at them and Santa moves in front of Sally. Later, Sally runs through the graveyard, running into Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Jack
Jack nods, and they proceed through the door in the Hinterlands. Oogie Boogie walks around laughing inside the Toy Factory. Santa Claus is tied up on the conveyor belt. Oogie jumps onto the belt
The Toy Factory is definitely not as cheery as it once was
Santa, gagged, cannot speak. Maleficent starts to perform a spell, when Oogie accidentally bumps her from behind
Oogie walks into the conveyor and fiddles with it. There is an explosion and a large billow of smoke rises out of the factory. Sora, Donald, Goofy, Jack, and Sally enter Yuletide Hill
They rush to the Toy Factory. Oogie Boogie reveals himself with a laugh. He jumps from the high ledge and grabs Sally. He releases her and turns around
Sally sneaks around the conveyor belt, holding one of her legs
He jumps down to the conveyor belt, where Santa is still tied up
He motions with his arms, and gets up Santa. Sally gasps. Oogie laughs and Sally throws her leg to Oogie
Santa gets away as Oogie is distracted
Santa runs to the corner where Sally is. Oogie storms after them, but is blocked by Jack, Donald, Goofy, and Sora
He runs back and into the conveyor. They run up as Oogie comes down on a scaffold-like contraption. He presses a button and laughs, as the conveyor belt starts moving and sharp spikes appear at the other end, where Sora and company are headed
Donald runs up the center belt into the conveyor. He then runs out on the left belt
He runs back into the conveyor, then back out on the center belt
The conveyor belt starts moving backwards
After getting Boogie down from the scaffold, his stitching starts to come undone, and bugs spill out. He holds it closed and it stops. He sighs, but then his other side starts to rip. He yells helplessly as the bugs spill out of him and he disappears. Donald steps on a stray insect. Sora sighs in relief
She walks out with his outfit
Jack starts putting on his outfit
Jack spins around, showing off his outfit
Jack looks down and scratches his head
He turns around
Jack walks away with the Mayor, seemingly excited with new ideas for Halloween
Jack's Sandy Claws outfit glows brightly
Sora's Keyblade opens another gateway
Sora, Donald, and Goofy leave Halloween Town. They pilot the Gummi Ship through Sunlight Storm and land in an African savannah. A lone lion cub stands in a large rocky gorge. He looks around a bit and sees tiny stone rattling on the ground. He feels the vibrations getting stronger and looks up. Over its steep edge, hundreds of wildebeest storm the gorge. The cub looks at it frightfully. He runs as they're upon him, until he comes to a single tree in the center and climbs on. He hangs onto the branch. A wildebeest knocks into it and sends the cub flying. A large lion runs against the flood of wildebeest and catch the cub in his mouth. He climbs up the side of the gorge and lets the cub down, but is pulled back in by the other animals. The cub looks down in horror watching for a sign of his father. The lion springs up out of the fray and grabs onto the rock face. The cub watches expectantly as the lion creeps up the side of the gorge. He slips slightly and the cub runs around to find a higher viewing point. The lion looks up to see a darker-colored lion approaching the edge of the gorge. Simba turns around just as his father gets thrown back into the horde of wildebeest with a loud roar
Simba wakes up from his nightmare
He gasps and looks over to see Timon and Pumbaa snoring. He gets up and walks to the edge of the cliff. He looks up into the stars. Sora, Donald, and Goofy appear in the Gorge
They look around
They're surrounded by hyenas. Ed laughs then snarls
Ed laughs and licks his lips. Donald yells and they split in three directions. Sora trips and is stopped by Banzai
They corner Donald and Goofy. They hear a lion roar
The hyenas leave
Donald and Goofy sigh with relief
They leave the Gorge and find a lioness in the Elephant Graveyard running from some Living Bone Heartless
Sora runs up to the lioness
They defeat the Heartless
Nala shakes her head and Sora sighs
Nala nods
Sora hops over to Nala
Nala nods and leaves
They run across the Savannah and reach Pride Rock. Nala walks out to them with a mandrill named Rafiki
Rafiki inspects Sora closely
Rafiki looks to Goofy and Donald. A few lionesses awake. Rafiki whispers something in Nala's ear, then walks away
Sora sighs
They try to leave, but are cut off by Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed
Ed laughs. They hear a growl
A fat, ugly lion is standing next to Scar on Pride Rock
Scar runs down the rock. Pete tries to follow, but his large stomach makes him lose his balance, and he falls down. Sora looks at him pitifully as he stands up
The hyenas are almost upon them
Scar moves closer, but Nala jumps on him. Sora gasps
They run down the hill evading the hyenas. Nala leaves Scar and runs ahead
They lose the hyenas in the Savannah
In the Oasis, Timon wakes Simba up
Simba nods slightly
Simba smiles and walks off
Simba walks to the edge of the cliff, looks upward, and collapses, sending leaves into the sky. Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Nala approach a wide crevasse. Nala takes a few steps backward and jumps over the crack
Sora looks down to the bottom, which is a long way down
Eventually, Sora, Donald, and Goofy get to the other side of the crevasse. The leaves sent by Simba fly to Pride Rock and are caught by Rafiki. He smells them and hops down into the Stone Hollow. He places them into a large turtle shell made as a bowl and sifts them around. He is told that they come from Simba. The mandrill takes some red paint and adds it to the lion drawing on the wall. Sora, Donald, Nala, and Goofy come to the end of Wildebeest Valley
Rafiki catches up to them
She runs ahead
They run after her through the Wastelands and enter the Jungle. In the Oasis, they see Aerial Knocker Heartless surrounding Simba. He roars and they disappear
Simba gets defensive
Simba walks closer to them, and sees the resemblance
He happily pounces on Sora and rubs his stomach, while Donald and Goofy laugh
They hear Timon and Pumbaa scream
He speeds off
They leave to help him. Timon and Pumbaa are huddling in fright as Nala approaches. She leaps, but is pounced on by Simba. Sora, Donald, and Goofy run up
Simba and Nala battle it out
He charges at her, making them both spin, and she pins him to the ground
Nala gets off him and looks him over
They bump heads together, walking in circles around each other
Timon and Pumbaa turn around and see Sora, Donald, and Goofy. They scream and run away. Timon hides behind Simba's leg
Sora and Donald nod
Pumbaa gets up and whirls around
They laugh
Simba and Nala walk off together to the Oasis
Timon and Pumbaa are showing Sora, Donald, and Goofy the way of the Jungle, swinging their heads as they walk
Nala walks past them
Simba leaves afterward. At night, he gazes up into the sky
Simba remembers a similar night spent with his father. Young Simba is nestled on Mufasa's back
Simba looks into the stars
Several clouds appear and take the form of Mufasa. He shines with a holy light
Mufasa disappears and the clouds roll away. Simba takes a moment to gaze at the sky
Sora, Donald, Goofy, Timon, and Pumbaa enter
The morning sun shines behind him. They leave for the Savannah. Simba looks over the barren ground and gasps
Scar looks out over Pride Rock. Most of the lionesses are sleeping. He look up and sees Simba, who leaps down to him
Simba presses forward, pushing Scar backwards
Scar presses forward onto Simba, who backs away slowly
Simba trips on the edge of Pride Rock and hangs by his arms off the ledge
Scar plunges his claws into Simba's paws
Simba remembers how his father fell from the ledge and his scream for him afterward. He shoots up off the ledge and pounces on Scar
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed run out of the Den and attack Simba. Scar runs away into the King's Den
Simba nods and runs after Scar, as hyenas surround Sora. Timon and Pumbaa rush up, spilling hyenas into the air
Timon hops off Pumbaa and they stand firm. Then, the hyenas all glare at them and they run into the King's Den, Sora, Donald, and Goofy following. They fight the hyenas while protecting Timon and Pumbaa. The hyenas run out of the Den
They run up to the Peak, and find Simba and Scar circling each other
Sora stops him
Simba claws at Scar, and Scar claws back, knocking Simba away. Scar makes to pounce on Simba, but he lifts his legs, and tosses him over the edge of Pride Rock
Pete points to the edge, where a claw rises up
Scar climbs back onto the Peak
They fight a gruesome battle with Scar, but ultimately, he is defeated.
Later, everyone watches as Simba ascends the promontory. As he reaches the edge, he lets out a loud roar. The lionesses roar in unison. Mufasa's image appears in the clouds once more, and a sunbeam shines down upon the new king of Pride Rock. Sora's Keyblade opens another gateway
He runs off wildly
Sora, Donald, and Goofy leave the Pride Lands. A previous world has appeared on the map
Sora pilots the Gummi Ship back to Twilight Town and they enter the Tram Common. Vivi runs past them
Donald and Goofy nod and they run to the Sandlot. Seifer, Fuu, and Rai are lying on the ground surrounded by Dusks. Seifer tries to get up
They fight off the Nobodies
A cloaked figure stands beside them clapping his hands
Sora readies his Keyblade
The man points at Sora warningly
He takes off his hood, revealing his long blue hair and x-shaped scar on his face
A portal appears behind Sax
Sax bows out through the portal, which disappears
Sora points to himself questioningly
Seifer runs up and thrusts it into Goofy's arms
Seifer smirks at Sora and leaves, Rai and Fuu following. Pence runs in from the other direction
Pence, Sora, Donald, and Goofy run to the Station Plaza. Hayner and Olette run up to them
Olette and Hayner look at each other sadly. They explain what happened to Sora
They remember the events of the short time with Kairi in the Usual Spot
Axel walks in through a portal. Pluto breaks into a defensive stance
Axel walks out of the portal. Hayner runs for a punch, but passes right through him. Pence does as well. Axel grabs Kairi by the arm and drags her back to the portal
Pluto runs in after them. Pence and Hayner get up and the portal disappears. Sora holds up the Oathkeeper keychain
Sora pockets the charm
Sora sighs
Sora's outburst scares Goofy, who drops the trophy
The crystals spill in different directions. Hayner, Olette, and Pence pick them up
Sora picks up the blue one and holds it up to the light. Goofy takes a blue one out of the munny pouch and holds it up also. Hayner, Olette, and Pence hold theirs up. Sora's image is that of Roxas
Goofy scratches his head, while holding the munny pouch. Sora's crystal starts to glow, and it floats into the air. Sora opens a gateway with his Keyblade
Donald and Goofy nod. A figure is sitting alone in the white room in the tallest chair. Sax appears
Sax lowers his head
Sax turns his head up to face Xemnas
Sax nods
Sora's group returns to the gummi ship. Sora sighs
They hurry to Hollow Bastion and enter the Marketplace. A large troupe of Heartless ascend the stairs and vanish, to their surprise
A few Dusks float in above the stairs, again to their amazement
On the way to the Borough, they spot Scrooge McDuck
The three walk over to him
They see a yellow-haired man leaning against the wall next to Scrooge's ice cream shop
Cloud notices them
Aerith walks in as Cloud walks out
Cloud turns around
Aerith leans closer
Cloud walks away
Sora, Donald, and Goofy continue into the Borough and enter Merlin's House, where Cid is typing at the computer
They walk to the Bailey
Sora stops and turns around. He doesn't see anyone until three small fairies appear
Paine quickly covers Rikku's mouth
Sora, Donald, and Goofy have suspicious and confused looks on their faces
Rikku nods, Paine's hand still over her mouth
She lets go of Rikku
Paine crosses her arms and disappears. Yuna turns around and bows
Yuna disappears. Rikku poses happily and vanishes. Goofy and Donald look to Sora, who shrugs. They walk on to the Postern
Aerith shakes her head and Sora sighs
They walk into the Corridors. A small blue creature crawls along the ceiling. Sora, Donald, and Goofy whirl around but see nothing. They find Ansem's Study, and see a large portrait of Ansem hanging on the wall
She looks around the room
Sora pulls one of his own spiky hairs. Tifa giggles
Donald and Goofy shake their heads, and Sora shrugs
Tifa walks around the room, knocking on the walls, looking under the desk, and inspecting the books. She kicks one of the walls hard with her foot. Sora, Donald, and Goofy are amazed at how strong she is
Tifa leaves and closes the door
They see Leon leaning against the wall
Leon nods
Leon holds a finger to his lips
Leon presses a part of the wall, and the wall disappears
They enter the room and Sora runs up to the large keyboard
Sora starts pressing buttons, gently at first, then harder
The small blue creature crawls up the wall and onto the ceiling
Goofy looks up to the ceiling and sees Stitch
He loses his grasp on the ceiling
Stitch falls down onto the keyboard
Donald jumps onto the keyboard to get Stitch, who jumps on Donald and scurries away laughing. Donald turns around, accidentally pressing buttons, and an alarm sounds. Donald looks afraid
Donald presses another button with his feet. The alarm sounds again
Donald is stuck standing on one foot, so Goofy picks him up off the computer. Leon notices that the power system behind them has started to glow
The three look to Leon, then to the power system, Donald still in Goofy's arms. The system shoots out beams of light and confines them into grids. Leon can only watch as the three of them are digitally written into the computer by the beam scanner. Sora wakes up on the floor of a very strange room. He stares at himself and sees that he is covered in blue-lit lines
Donald and Goofy, who are also covered in the lines, are being led over by Strafer Heartless
Commander Sark appears next to him
Sark presses a button on his data emitter and Donald and Goofy are shocked with data
Sark puts the data emitter away and smirks. Sora, Donald, and Goofy are confined to a Pit Cell. They look out onto a huge landscape
Donald and Goofy shake their heads
A man is sitting near a terminal
Tron stands up
They're all shocked
The three sigh
They see a large power grid with a keyhole blinking in the center. Sora calls his Keyblade out and unlocks the energy field. Sark meets with the MCP
An alarm sounds
Back in the Pit Cell, Tron walks up to Sora
They leave the Pit Cell and take a transport to the Canyon. In a side room, Tron accesses a large machine
Sora uses his Keyblade to install the missing part to the core and restore energy to the console in the Pit Cell
Sora, Donald, and Goofy glance at each other
Donald and Goofy nod. They all return to the Pit Cell. Tron configures the computer terminal
Tron stops working and stands up
Tron turns around and begins to work back on the terminal
The three look at each other, as the terminal flashes
After fixing a few things with the computer
Tron stands aside and watches, as they are teleported out of the system. Leon has been busy typing at the computer when the power system behinds him whirs on and Sora, Donald, and Goofy appear. They're happy they're back out again
Sora explains everything to Leon, or at least tries to
Tifa returns to Ansem's Study, Sora, Donald, and Goofy following. Tifa makes several adjustments to the room
After searching and coming up short, they stand in front of Ansem's portrait
She proceeds to pick the extremely large portrait off the wall with strength that shocks the other three. She places it aside on the floor, revealing a hidden diagram written on the wall. She punches the wall, sending dust everywhere. Nothing happens, and she sighs and leaves. The three examine the wall
Sora jumps up to the letters imprinted on the wall
Leon walks in
Leon walks closer
Mickey stands by the door with his hood up
Mickey shushes them, looks into the hallway, then quickly closes the door. He takes off his hood as Donald rushes to hug him. Goofy picks up the both of them
He glances over at the computer room entrance for a second
Sora nods, putting a finger to his lips. Goofy puts Mickey and Donald down. Donald hugs Mickey one more time, before Mickey pushes him away and looks right and left
Sora, Donald, and Goofy sigh
Leon smiles
Leon walks back into the computer room
Mickey crosses his arms
Leon returns
The three look from Leon to the King, and back again
They nod. Sora returns to the computer and accesses the transfer system. They are transported to the Pit Cell again. Goofy walks over to the computer terminal
The terminal flashes
Sora and Donald disappear in a flash of light
Goofy also disappears. They arrive at the game grid, a large area of flat land and high walls. The ground is laced with a blue-lit grid pattern
Sora rides the lightcycle, dodging walls and defeating heartless. A large Devastator Heartless appears and shoots an energy ball at Sora. Sora dodges, and the ball creates a giant crack in the wall
Sora rides the lightcycle, while dodging walls and heartless, and races through the hole in the wall. Sora, Donald, and Goofy return to the Pit Cell, where they find Tron lying on the floor
Tron stands up, though weakly
Tron almost falls, but Sora catches him
The group returns to the Canyon and enters the Dataspace. Tron accesses the computer
Tron types in the password
There's a small rumble
An alarm sounds
He types at the computer
A Heartless symbol appears on the three walls of the Dataspace, and Heartless appear in front of them
Sora fights the Heartless and unlocks each of the monitors. Tron places his hand on the scanner on the keyboard and energy flows into him
An alarm sounds and the keyboard flashes. A beam of energy shoots down at the group, who duck away from it
Sora gasps
Tron places his hand on the scanner and restores power to it. Tron types a few keys and the alarm stops
They nod
They return to the Canyon and ride the transport to the I/O Tower. In the Communications Room, they see a large transport beam
They look and see another computer terminal. They run back into the Hallway. A large hostile program appears and whirls gears
They nod. The program makes a move
The program sends out data beams that barricade the walls. After defeating the program, it collapses to the floor and explodes in a burst of light. They return to the Communication Room and Tron configures the computer terminal
Sora looks over at Donald and Goofy, who nod
Sora, Donald, and Goofy nod
Tron presses a button on the terminal
Grid beams appear around Sora, Donald, and Goofy
Sora, Donald, and Goofy are transported back to Ansem's computer room
Leon points to the monitor behind him
They see small moving sprites of themselves on the screen with the words 'Thank You!' typed underneath
Leon begins typing on the keyboard
Leon types in 'Sora'
Leon continues to type
Sora looks hesitant
He starts to walk out and places a hand on Sora's shoulder. He waves back as he leaves the room. Sora tries something on the computer
Sora types some keys on the keyboard. Some flashes on the screen
Sora presses a few more buttons and a red window appears on the screen with the words Data Error.
Sora sadly walks away. Goofy moves to type something
He types several keys and a gray window with the Nobody symbol comes on the screen
The red windows appears again
He types more keys. A progress window appears
The red windows appears again
Sora slams his fist on the keyboard
He continues to slam keys and the windows on the screen jump around wildly
A golden window appears with a picture of an elderly blond man wearing a red scarf
They notice his entrance
Mickey shushes them again and walks over to them
Mickey jumps
Sora, Donald, and Goofy look at each other
Sora grabs Mickey
Sora drags him into Ansem's Study. Donald and Goofy walk behind. Sora shows him the large portrait of Ansem
Sora, Donald, and Goofy have flashbacks of the final confrontation with him at the End of the World
Sora walks to Mickey's front
Mickey whirls around
He looks at the painting
Donald and Goofy nod
A huge explosion knocks Mickey off his balance
Mickey runs into the corridor and they follow him. A horde of Heartless is pacing its way through the site. A group of Heartless is fighting several Nobodies at the Postern, while Maleficent and Pete watch. The Nobodies seem to be winning
Pete runs away
The Nobodies seem to have overtaken the Heartless to Maleficent's disdain. She sees Sora, Donald, and Goofy race from around a corner. She vanishes in a flash of green flame, as the Heartless and Nobodies continue to fight
The Heartless stop fighting the Nobodies
They successfully defeat both groups of enemies. Yuna, Rikku, and Paine fly in from down the hall
The fairies turn to each other and start babbling amongst themselves. Sora, Donald, and Goofy wait for them
They turn around
The three fairies disappear like magic
Donald snickers and runs ahead to the Postern. Dusks appear after they arrive
They strike them down and run around the bridge. A large beam of light slams into the ground in their way
A man with long gray hair and three large wings stands up as the light dissipates. He turns around to face them
He turns around and walks away
He flies into the air and disappears. The three race to the Restoration Site, where Leon is slicing down Heartless. Aerith is there for support. She turns around as they enter
They whirl around and several Dancer Nobodies appear. They defeat the Nobodies and run to catch up with Leon
They leave the Restoration Site and enter the Bailey, seeing no one. They approach a rock formation and look out over the expanse
He sees literally thousands of Heartless storming the cliffs. Yuffie is fighting in the fray. Her shuriken swings back to her and she falls to the ground, tired. She suddenly is healed, and stands up as Aerith runs over. They continue to enter the fight. Stitch, meanwhile, jumps down and shoots at several Heartless with his plasma shooters. One attacks him from behind. He jumps out of the way, and shoots at it. Paine is chased to the edge of a ridge by an Armored Knight Heartless, and dodges as it swipes at her. She jumps up on it's head and over it. Yuna and Rikku attack from above, kicking it and spiraling to the ground. The Heartless stumbles over the cliff, as Yuna and Rikku jump into the air with a high-five. Paine flies back over and more Heartless chase after them. Cloud and Leon are surrounded on both sides by multitudes of Heartless, who are pushing them towards the edge of the cliff. The two stand back-to-back with their swords out and ready
They jump away from each other and begin decimating Heartless as they move in, sending a number of hearts floating into the sky. Cloud cleaves two and more surround him, cutting him off from Leon. Before he can blink, they are gone. He sees Sephiroth, standing on the edge of the cliff, his sword out, having just cleaved through nearly twenty Heartless surrounding Cloud. Cloud stares him down
He clutches his buster sword. Sephiroth walks forward and points his masamune at Cloud. The thin blade just barely touches Cloud's.
Cloud tries to look, but flashes of light make him wince
Sephiroth vanishes in a flash, spouting feathers. Cloud looks around him and runs, as Tifa runs to where he was standing
She is quickly surrounded by Heartless. One comes up behind her, she quickly gives a backfist to it, then power punches a second from the front. Another comes at her from her right, and she delivers a crescent kick
Mickey drops from the sky and holds his arms out, his back to them
The two of them straighten up at their names
Donald and Goofy look toward each other and nod, then straighten back up
Sora looks back at Mickey, who's scouting the area, still looking away from them
Donald winks at him. Sora catches on
Sora mouths the words Thank you
They run right past Mickey and down into the cliffs
They salute the King
They leave over the rock face, and Mickey sighs. A camera in Ansem's computer room scans the area. It moves to the door, where a hooded figure stands, and scans for data. The word 'unknown' flashes on the screen and the figure points to the camera. There is a flash of light and the camera is knocked into static and turns off. The hooded one walks over to the computer and inserts a disk. The monitor displays the words Now Loading before switching to an entry bar. The man types in Another and the computer brings him to another screen with six entry bars gathered around an inner circle symbol. He types passwords into each of these and the screen switches to System Start. The computer returns to the normal screen and the disk is ejected. The figure takes the disk and pockets it, walking toward the now open door at the edge of the room. He walks down the long stairs in the Heartless Manufactory and steps onto a lighted panel. The floor before him slides open from the center and lights up. He walks through and the floor closes. He walks down the ramp, which disappears, and steps down a spiral hallway. His thoughts travel back to several years ago
The figure gets to the end of the staircase and stops. The door in front of him opens with a flash and he enters a white hallway. He walks past several barred and diamond-windowed cells with digital locks and comes to another door. The door slides open. He enters a while room with black chains and Nobody symbols lining the walls and floor. The door closes behind him and he places his hand on the chair in the center of the room before sitting down. The chains and symbols glow white, eminating from the central chair. The glow crawls toward a blue figure lying on the floor
Vexen runs down the stairwell towards Zexion
Vexen starts to turn away
Vexen has trouble focusing
He walks past Zexion and mutters to himself
Zexion continues walking
Zexion stops and turns around. He sees another member sitting on top of a pipe
The man jumps to the floor
He waves the man off and starts walking. He runs up and places a hand around Zexion's shoulder
Zexion looks at the hand on his shoulder
He lets go and walks away
The man stops
He turns back around to face Zexion
He walks back down the stairs towards him
He walks past the man
The man turns around
Zexion stops
Zexion turns around
They stare at each other. Sora, Donald, and Goofy race to catch up with the others, but are stopped at the Castle Gate by Demyx, who hesitantly readies himself. He doesn't seem sure how to react
Demyx acts all scared
Sora, Donald, and Goofy ready their weapons. Demyx turns around, looking worried
Demyx turns back around
Demyx turns around again, and puts on another face
A dome of water appears around him. He stretches his hand up to the pinnacle and the dome turns into a bubble in his hand. The bubble explodes and forms his sitar. He grabs it and spins it around, pointing at them with a smirk on his face
After a very wet battle, Demyx slumps to the ground
His sitar disappears and he is devastated
He fades away in a wave of water
They start to walk off
They stop, wide-eyed and turn around. Mickey walks up to them and crosses his arms. Sora, Donald, and Goofy look down at the ground
Mickey walks ahead. A Surveillance Robot Heartless is fighting a Dusk on the ledge above. It shoots out a beam, which missed the Dusk and sends debris in all directions. Goofy notices a large rock heading straight for the King
Goofy pushes Mickey out of the way, and is knocked in the head by the rock. He falls to the ground and slides against the cliff. Sora, Donald, and Mickey run over to him. Goofy lies unconscious
Donald tries to wake him up
Donald lays his head on Goofy's chest
Mickey makes a fist and looks toward their objective
He whips off his cloak, summons his Keyblade, and runs ahead. Donald feels a surge of anger and runs after him. Sora stands up, takes one more look at Goofy, and follows them. They fight through the Ravine Trail and find Yuffie
They defeat several Heartless
Sora continues through the cliffs and finds Leon.
They fight more Heartless
Progressing further, he finds Tifa
They continue fighting
Sora follows the cliffs. Cloud jumps down, shoving his buster sword into the ground, knocking out several Heartless
The fight the last round of Heartless and continue into a Crystal Fissure
Sora, Donald, and Mickey can't believe their ears. Goofy is jumping at the entrance to the Crystal Fissure. He waves
Goofy runs over to them
Sora chuckles. Donald walks over to Goofy and slams his staff into Goofy's shin. Goofy jumps on one foot in pain
They continue deeper into the Great Maw, where tons of Heartless stand idle. Mickey slides to a stop
Goofy sees something up on the cliff
A man appears in a black cloak. He takes his hood off, revealing his silver hair and orange eyes
Mickey has a flashback to several years ago. He is standing in Ansem's Study, while Ansem the Wise is sitting in his large chair eating sea-salt ice cream. There are several tanks around the room containing hearts
He sits back in his chair
He rests his arm on the table, his hand on his forehead. There is a knock on the door. Ansem looks up and Mickey turns around. A man in a lab coat with white hair opens the door and walks in. He bows slightly
He pounds on the table
Xehanort restrains himself, bows again, and leaves, closing the door. Xehanort's Nobody stands on the cliff-face, and smiles down at them
Mickey gets out his Keyblade and runs up the cliff
Heartless quickly surround them. Sora's Keyblade appears with a flash of light
Sora glances behind him at Donald and Goofy, who give him a thumbs up. They each run to their own group of Heartless to defeat, as Sora turns around and blazes through his 1000. After the Great Maw is cleared of Heartless, Sora continues through the cliffs. He catches his breath as Donald and Goofy run up
Donald sees Mickey defeating an Armored Knight Heartless in a clearing ahead
Xehanort's Nobody stands facing Maleficent's dark castle. Mickey stands behind him
The three run up to them
He turns around to face them. Sora looks from him to Mickey
The man starts to disappear, Mickey runs up and jumps into the portal afterward
Sora slumps to the ground and slams his fist into it. Goofy puts a hand on his shoulder
They see Axel leaning against a rock
Axel points to the Keyblade
Axel scratches his head
Sax appears between Axel and Sora
Axel starts to vanish. Sora tries to run to him, but Sax holds out his arms and stops him
Axel is gone
Sora thinks, then kneels on the ground
Sora jumps up in anger
Sax snaps his fingers and several Armored Knight Heartless appear behind him. He looks toward the sky
He holds up his hands
Maleficent appears behind Sora, Donald, and Goofy
She raises her staff and Soldier Heartless surround Sax
Sax snaps his fingers and Nobodies appear and take down the Heartless. The Nobodies then turn their attention to Sora
Maleficent appears between Sora and the Nobodies. She glows with a green aura and spreads her arms out. A wall of flame blocks her from Sora
The Dusks overtake Maleficent and she is pulled down beneath their weight
Donald grabs Sora
The flames die down and Maleficent is gone
Sax snaps his fingers and the Nobodies disappear and Heartless take their place
Sax flicks out a hand toward Sora, and the Heartless attack. Sora knocks them away, releasing hearts into the air. Sax smiles
Sax vanishes and the hearts are sent to Kingdom Hearts
They are still surrounded by Heartless. An Armored Knight slams its saber down at Sora, who blocks with his Keyblade
There is a great flash of light, which Leon and Cloud see from the outskirts of town
Cloud starts to walk off
The light turns into a long beam shooting into the sky
Sora, Donald, and Goofy are back in the Gummi Ship
Sora reflects on what happened to them at the rock clearing
An Armored Knight slams its saber down at Sora, who blocks with his Keyblade
Sora knocks the Heartless away
Sora looks up at hearing Maleficent's voice
A black pool of darkness appears underneath the three of them and they are pulled down into it. They find themselves surrounded by blackness
Sora looks around, seeing nothing
Donald spots someone in a black cloak holding a white box
Donald runs over, but the person disappears, leaving the box. Donald picks it up
Donald opens it
Inside are a photograph and a sea-salt ice cream bar. Donald hands the photo to Sora
Donald holds the ice cream bar
Donald tastes it
Donald pulls it out of his mouth
The ice cream bar flashes and rises into the air. Sora's Keyblade appears. Sora opens another gateway
In the white room, Xemnas sits with three hooded Organization members. Sax appears
Another man tosses a pair of dice into the air
In the Gummi Ship, Goofy contemplates
They arrive back at the burned village in the Land of Dragons and walk through town
They see someone in a black cloak at the edge of the town. He runs
Sora starts to run after him
They run to the Ridge and look around. Mulan taps Sora's shoulder and points. The cloaked man runs farther up the mountain. They follow him to the Summit
A multitude of Rapid Thruster Heartless appear over the edge of the summit
Sora starts to run, but stops. Donald, Goofy, and Mulan continue ahead. Sora turns around and sees the cloaked figure standing in the snow. He points his Keyblade at him
The figure points past him. Sora turns around and knocks away a Heartless floating near him. The man takes out a wing-like sword. After fighting him, they stand apart. The man holds up a hand to Sora, then runs back down the mountain. Sora chases him
Sora continues to run, but sees no one. Donald and Goofy find him
Donald nods and there is a rumble in the mountain
Before leaving, Sora takes one more look at the Summit, then turns around and walks to the Ridge. The mountain shakes again and a gigantic Storm Rider Heartless bursts out of the snow and into the air. It roars and flies away from the mountain
They run down the mountain. In the city, Captain Li Shang is knocked to the floor by the figure in black. His winged sword vanishes from his hand and he walks toward the Emperor. They run through the Mountain Trail, past the Checkpoint, and into Imperial Square
Mulan runs to the palace, and Sora, Donald, and Goofy follow. They are stopped by several Heartless, but they are soon defeated
They run to the Palace Gate, which is locked. Sora, Donald, and Goofy bang on the doors
Sora pulls on the door handles, placing a foot on the door to pull it open. Mulan looks to the pillar next to her
Mulan runs to the pillar
Donald and Sora follow Goofy to the pillar. Goofy jumps onto it and starts climbing. Donald jumps on, slides a few inches, then creeps up behind Goofy. Sora tags along behind. Mulan climbs last. Sora looks down to see she's climbing alright and continues. Mulan trips and falls back down the pillar. Sora reaches to catch her, but she finds a hold and starts climbing again. They reach the Antechamber and drop down to the floor. Donald lands on his stomach, but then gets up. They see a cloaked figure at the end of the hall before two doors
The person flinches at the sound and turns to face them. Sora walks slowly toward him
Goofy and Donald look at each other in confusion. The man takes off his hood, showing his scar, eyepatch, and long striped hair in a ponytail
Sniper Nobodies appear around the group and Sora is distracted. When he looks back to the doors, he sees no one. Xigbar runs from behind him to the Palace Gate in secret. After successfully defeating the Nobodies...
They enter the Throne Room and see the Emperor sitting upon his throne, Shang standing nearby
A huge rumble shakes the palace
They turn to leave
They return to the Antechamber. Mulan opens the gate and the Storm Rider flies up to it, frightening her. She backs away from it. Sora places a hand on her shoulder as it flies away from the gate. They run outside, where it's gliding in the sky above the Square. It gathers strength and swoops down over them. They dodge to the ground
Sora gets up and races toward it, grabbing onto its tail. Mulan, Donald, and Goofy do the same. The Heartless flies high into the air. After a long battle, the Storm Rider Heartless starts to fall to the ground directly over Mulan
Shang runs to Mulan, just as the Heartless comes down. A giant heart flies out of the creature and disappears into the sky. The Heartless vanishes, leaving Shang holding Mulan.
(Shang helps Mulan up and they smile at each other. They look over at Sora, Donald, and Goofy, then back at each other. Realizing they're still holding hands, they look away embarrassed. Fireworks blaze above the palace. They return to the Throne Room
Donald shakes his hands together gleefully
Goofy's stomach rumbles
Donald and Goofy try to say something
Donald and Goofy hang their heads
Shang is surprised
Shang walks up to her and smiles. Sora seems to be just a little teary-eyed. He wipes his eyes, as Donald and Goofy walk over to him. He stops them and looks to Mulan and Shang. Shang places an arm around Mulan's shoulder, and they look into each other's eyes and nod. Sora, Donald, and Goofy leave the Land of Dragons and arrive at Beast's Castle. Belle is preparing for a night of ballroom dancing in her room. She hums to herself as she finishes putting on her dress
Sora, Donald, and Goofy enter the castle and see the Beast pacing in the Entrance Hall, wearing a fancy suit
Donald looks around
The Beast sighs in frustration
Belle walks down the east staircase
Beast walks up the stairs and meets her at the entrance to the Ballroom. They bow to each other. She takes his arm, and he leads her into the Ballroom
Donald runs up the stairs
They have no choice but to run after him. The Beast and Belle walk to the middle of the Ballroom and stare into each other's eyes
They notice Sora, Donald, and Goofy by the door
Belle is surprised and hugs the Beast close. Beast looks up at the railing above the dance floor. Sora runs further into the ballroom and turns around to see a cloaked man standing behind the railing
The Beast leaves Belle and runs toward Xaldin. Belle glares
Xaldin snaps his fingers and several Dragoon Nobodies appear. The Beast runs and swipes through them with a roar
Beast lets out a loud bellow
Xaldin disappears, leaving the Nobodies to take care of them
They fight the Nobodies. The castle staff quickly hurries Belle out to the balcony away from the fight
The Beast realizes something and races out of the Ballroom
Belle quickly runs after him
They hurry to the Beast's Room in the West Wing, where the Beast is pacing around the room. He roars and slams the floor
She walks closer to him
The Beast swing to face her, she holds up her hands
The Beast swipes slightly at her. Sora stands between them
The Beast holds a hand to his forehead
The Beast looks away
Belle doesn't know what to say
He looks at his hands
The Beast says nothing further. Belle reaches a hand out to him
Belle turns away
She nods, turns to look at the Beast one more time, then leaves. Mrs. Potts, Cogsworth, and Lumiere are in the West Wing. Belle waves solemnly at them as she walks by and down the stairs
Sora, Donald, and Goofy meet with them
Donald and Goofy nod. They return to the Beast's room
The Beast remembers
Sora, Donald, and Goofy nod. They return to the Entrance Hall
Xaldin stands high at a stained-glass window, holding the enchanted rose
Xaldin takes off his hood
They fight the group of Nobodies that appear. Xaldin floats down from the high pedestal. He looks back at them and leaves through the front door. The four walk to the Courtyard. Goofy looks up and sees Belle on the balcony outside her window
Belle sighs and looks to the Courtyard. She sees Sora, Donald, Goofy and the Beast, and gasps, about to head back inside. She looks to the spot on the balcony next to her
She picks up the rose and calls down to them
Beast looks up. A gloved hand covers her mouth. She struggles against Xaldin, but he holds her firmly
Xaldin grabs Belle, who's still holding the rose, and jumps from the balcony. He lands at the Bridge
They run through the arc, Beast shoving the door open with his shoulder. The stars glimmer in the night sky, as Beast runs ahead down the Bridge towards Xaldin and Belle. He stops as he gets nearer
He looks to the rose and to Belle
The Beast growls. Belle looks worried
The Beast begins to run. Catching Xaldin off guard, Belle elbows him in the stomach and grabs the rose. She runs past the Beast and Sora
The Beast charges at Xaldin and swipes at him with his claws. Xaldin leaps backwards out of the way. He throws up his hands creating six small pillars of dust. Lightning thunders through them. Xaldin releases his arms and the dust clears, leaving six naginata. They teleport into the air above him. He catches two in each hand, and creates a wind tunnel that holds the other two
They fight a cruel battle against Xaldin
Xaldin is shoved back, his six staves sharp in the ground. They disappear in shafts of white light. Xaldin screams in agony and fades away. Afterwards, the castle staff arrives. Belle hands the rose to the Beast
The Beast takes it
The Beast places the rose on the ground
The Beast is having a hard time forming words, and he glances at the group
The Beast looks back at Belle
Belle smiles and holds her hand out. The Beast understands and places a hand on her waist and around her hand
The Beast smiles
They start to dance as the music plays. The Beast twirls her
The two continue to dance. Sora, Donald, and Goofy return to the Gummi Ship
Sora pilots the Gummi Ship back to Port Royal. A man with a black cloak enters Isla de Muerta and walks toward the large treasure chest full of medallions. Sora, Donald, and Goofy walk into the Rampart
They run to the Harbor and find Jack chased by several cursed pirates
They fend off the pirates
They nod
Elizabeth runs up to them
He starts to leave
They board the Black Pearl and set sail for Isla de Muerta
They run over and see Will knocked out on the railing of the ship
Jack places a hand to his chest
After they save Will, Elizabeth kneels in the Captain's stateroom with Will in her arms
He falls asleep in her arms. She lays him down
Jack turns to leave
Jack returns to the deck
A figure in a black cloak appears. The treasure chest is beside him
The figure holds out a hand
The large Grim Reaper Heartless appears swinging his pendulum-like axe
The man disappears, leaving them to fight the Heartless. After the battle on deck, it is knocked into the water
The man has appeared again and it standing behind the treasure chest. He takes off his hood, revealing his blond hair. He smirks
Luxord grabs four medallions
Luxord throws the medallions into the air and several Gambler Nobodies appear and snatch them away
The Grim Reaper Heartless floats out of the water, cursed by the medallions. It swings it's axe and makes a large wind current that blows Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Jack onto the deck of the Interceptor
The cannons on the Black Pearl let loose on the Interceptor. Will and Elizabeth run out of the stateroom and watch as the Interceptor is destroyed. Luxord laughs evilly as the Black Pearl sails on. Sora wakes up in the Interceptor's Hold
Sora and Goofy stare at Donald
Jack walks out of the moonlight and regains his human form
They continue to the Seadrift Keep
He points to a Gambler Nobody who's flipping a medallion in its hand
After defeating the Nobody, it vanishes and the medallion falls to the ground. Jack picks it up
He points to a ship coming in. Elizabeth is standing on deck
They arrive on the Black Pearl and Jack's skeletal form is shown
They set a course for Isla de Muerta. They find the final three Nobodies and take back the medallions. They then return to the ship
Jack walks up the stairs to the helm
They leave for Port Royal. When they arrive, the Grim Reaper Heartless is waiting at the Harbor
Jack leads the Grim Reaper away from the treasure chest. Sora, Donald, Will, and Goofy approach it
Sora adds the four medallions to the chest. The Grim Reaper returns to normal
Jack looks at himself
The Grim Reaper swings at the group, who dodge out of the way. It's swinging axe slashes into the chest, scattering the medallions. The Heartless regains it's skeletal form
They manage to return the gold to the chest and defeat the Heartless. Jack becomes fully human again
Luxord appears and takes the heart from the Heartless, sending it to Kingdom Hearts
He vanishes as they run up to him
Will and Elizabeth walk over
Sora thinks
The treasure chest is dropped into the sea to rest forever in Davy Jones's Locker. They board the Black Pearl again
Sora nods
Sora flips the handle around and offers the Keyblade to Jack Sparrow
Jack, slightly hesitant, takes the Keyblade and holds it up. The blade vanishes from his hand and reappears in Sora's. Jack points at him with both hands
They look at each other, then everyone laughs. Later, Jack sails away in The Black Pearl
Sora, Donald, and Goofy return to the Gummi Ship
Sora pilots the Gummi Ship to the Underworld
They see a stadium across the Styx river that is all lit up
Sora looks over at the entrance to the Olympus Coliseum and sees Hercules and Megara. He looks back and Auron is gone. They walk up to Hercules
Hades appears in a puff of smoke
Hercules starts to get angry, then quits
Hades looks to Meg, Hercules covers her
They sign up for the Hades Cup with Hercules and look at the tier board
They win in the first round
They choose to continue the tournament
They look at the tier board
The second round names them as winners
They see Auron standing near the door
Auron has a reddish glow to him. It fades away as he turns around
He turns around and leaves
Auron enters the Cave of the Dead as Sora returns to the Underworld Entrance. Sora, Donald, and Goofy follow him. Sora enters, but quickly hides when he sees Auron and Hades. Donald walks in, and Sora pulls him to his hiding spot
Donald shushes him
He places a hand on Auron's shoulder and several pyreflies swirl around it. Auron groans in pain. Hades pulls out a figurine of Auron
Sora and Donald duck from where they're watching them as Auron turns around
Auron leaves the cave
Auron gets into a boat with Pain and Panic, which sails to the Underdrome. Panic waves goodbye to them, then Pain stares at him, and he stops.
Hades turns around looking worried. He tries to think of a plan
Pain and Panic arrive back with the boat. Hercules gets in with Hades and they sail off, Hercules waving to them
Sora, Donald, and Goofy travel through the Cave of the Dead. Auron and Hercules are fighting in the tournament. Auron slices at Hercules who dodges back and stops the blade
Meg and Phil watch as Hercules struggles to keep Auron's sword at bay. Sora and the others enter Hades's Chamber and find the Auron figurine on the stone table
Sora touches it, but is shocked by energy. Goofy touches him and is also shocked
Donald touches Goofy and he also gets shocked
They hear Auron's thoughts and memories
Dusks surround them
They fight the group, but more appear
The Nobodies slowly walk closer to them. Heartless begin attacking them
They run out of the Cave, leaving the Heartless and the Nobodies to their battle
They swim over in the boat to help Hercules. His fight with Auron is still going on. Auron cleaves downward with his sword, but Hercules dodges. He spins around, letting the sword swing. Hercules dodges underneath it and swings back up. Hercules realizes he is right on the edge of the platform, when Auron runs up and clasps the sword down onto Hercules, who blocks with his hands. He struggles to keep the sword up, falling to one knee
Sora holds out the doll and throws it onto the field. It bursts over Auron, and his free will returns to him. He stops fighting and sets his sword down. Hercules catches his breath
Hades in a fury bursts into a pillar of flame and disappears from his chair. He reappears down on the platform
Donald and Goofy laugh
He snaps his fingers and the stone gate behind him lifts up to reveal a swirling green vortex. They hear a scream as Hades teleports Meg to the pool. She is suspended by clouds of smoke
He snaps his fingers again and she is lost to the river of death
Hercules runs past Hades, pushing him away
He jumps in to save her. Hades looks to make sure he's in
The stone gate behind him closes. Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Auron glare at him
Hades teleports behind them
Hades turns red
They start to fight, but Hades barely feels a thing. He laughs
Hades gets ready to throw something else at them, when the stone gate opens. They look and see no one
They see Hercules holding Meg. Herc now has a bright glow to him
Pegasus flies down
Herc puts Meg down
Sora, Donald, and Goofy chuckle as Meg flies away on Pegasus
They fight an unbelievable battle against Hades
Hades clutches his heart. Sora strikes one more time, but Hades teleports to the edge of the river of death. Hades backs away
He trips over the edge and falls into the river. Later, they see Auron off in the Underworld Entrance
He chuckles
Auron turns to leave. Sora, Donald, and Goofy slump in irony
He turns back around
They slump again
Auron walks away with a smirk. Later, they all meet under a full moon night sky
Hercules and Meg look at each other, then separate, slightly embarrassed. Though, they can't stop looking back at each other and smiling
Sora points to himself. Phil strokes his goatee
Donald and Sora glare at him
Sora looks at Donald, then back at Phil
He starts to walk away
Phil starts to run back to the Coliseum, Donald in pursuit
Meg and Hercules look into the stars
Donald and Sora stop and look. Phil stops running and is amazed at what he sees in the sky. Sora, Donald, and Goofy jump for joy as tears run down Phil's face. The stars in the sky have formed constellations of Sora, Donald, and Goofy, signifying them as true heroes. In the dungeon of Agrabah, the Peddler watches fearfully as large bouts of red smoke appear. The lamp is laying next to him and the coffin is open. Iago flies in and watches as Jafar emerges from the smoke, laughing
The Peddler runs back to his shop, where Sora, Donald, and Goofy appear. Donald knocks into a vase, almost breaking it
They notice there's plenty of gold behind him
Iago, Aladdin, and Abu enter the shop
Sora turns around and the Peddler has disappeared. Aladdin sighs
They remember the events of fighting Jafar before
He points his snake staff at Aladdin
He leaves with a swish of his cloak
They remember his psychotic laugh
They proceed to the Palace Walls and see a windstorm at the desert ruins
Genie flies through the air
He swings around Aladdin
Genie vanishes, then reappears almost as big as the palace wall
His eyes bug out. He teleports back to Aladdin, but small this time
Genie teleports again
He points a finger and magic twirls around to the sandstorm and it goes away. They're still amazed. Genie is missing
They walk to the Sandswept Ruins, which are in a gigantic hole in the ground
The carpet flies in and points to itself
Sora board the carpet and Jafar's shadow appears near a ruin on the other side of the hole. He heads toward it. The shadow vanishes in red smoke and Heartless appear. He defeats the Heartless and the shadow reappears in an archway. He chases the shadow to the roof of a tower. The shadow vanishes in smoke again and more Heartless appear. He defeats the Heartless and a monument appears on the tower. Sora examines it and it shows three switches around the ruins. Sora triggers all the switches and the tower opens. Sora flies into the tower window. Sora, Donald, Goofy, Aladdin, and Iago proceed into the Ruined Chamber
Iago flies to a stone
He flies into an urn, and triggers the ruins to collapse. The carpet flies in
They fly out of the collapsing ruins and back to the Palace Walls. The carpet slumps to the ground
They run into Agrabah and interrogate the Peddler
They look at Iago, who looks down. They race to the Palace, where Jafar has Jasmine in chains
She struggles at her chains
He touches her chin
Jasmine sees the group and gasps expectantly. Jafar turns around
He looks away from them, as if disgusted. He sees Iago on Goofy's shoulder
His snake staff's eyes glow. He threatens Iago, Goofy covering him with his shield. Jafar switches his target to Aladdin shoots a beam of energy at him
Iago takes the hit and falls to the ground, unmoving
Jafar glows with magical energy. Red smoke billows from behind him. He lifts up his hands and enters the smoke. Jafar changes into his genie form and grows enormous
Jafar rips off a tower from the palace and drops it over Sora and Aladdin
The carpet catches them and sweeps them away from the debris
Sora rides the magic carpet and fights Jafar
Jafar explodes in a burst of magic and his lamp melts away. Genie appears
Sora and Aladdin nod
He swings his arms
Magic flies around everywhere restoring the buildings of Agrabah
Aladdin stretches
Goofy walks beneath Iago to catch him if he falls, but he doesn't watch where he's going
He crashes into a market stand
They see magic flying around
Genie spins around in the air
He places his hands on Sora's shoulders as magic falls everywhere. In his lab, Dr. Finkelstein is still working on his latest creation. He pulls the switch and the lab table erupts with electricity. It swirls around inside his robot, but the machine just sits there. The doctor spins around in his wheelchair
He rolls over to the desk, where the familiar heart-shaped container is located. The experiment's head turns to look at him. The doctor thinks he hears something and considers moving his wheelchair. He whirls it around suddenly when something attacks him. Sora, Donald, and Goofy arrive in the Hinterlands and see dozens of presents scattered around the forest floor
Jack, still in his Sandy Claws outfit, is picking them up
They walk to Santa's House with the presents
They place them on the table
He takes the present from Jack's hands
They look at Jack, who scratches his head
He points to the door and starts to leave. Sora, Donald, and Goofy slump in defeat. They hear a crash from the Toy Factory. They run to the second floor Wrapping Room and find Lock, Shock, and Barrel in amongst the toys
Lock tosses away a sailboat. Barrel looks at a stuffed bear
Barrel tosses the bear away
The three miscreants look up and see them
She puts her mask back on and they start to run away
Sora quickly locks the kids in boxes, then interrogates them
The three of them leave. Sora, Donald, Jack, and Goofy meet with Santa Claus
Sally runs in
They start to leave
They run to Halloween Town Square and find the Mayor yelling at the Heartless
The Heartless are busy playing with presents
Sora gets out his Keyblade and defeats the Heartless, retrieving the presents. Jack sees an open present lying on the ground, though, he steps on the doll and picks up the box
The door to Dr. Finkelstein's lab opens and the doctor wheels himself out, rubbing his head
They follow the doctor inside
Donald nods
They return to Santa's House
Jack scratches his head
They ascend the stairs in the Toy Factory to the Wrapping Room and find an elf
They quickly make 100 decoy presents
Sora, Donald, and Goofy return to Santa's House
They walk outside to Candy Cane Lane, where Santa unlocks the doors to the Christmas Tree Plaza
They lead Jack to the plaza. Sora let's go of Jack's mouth and pats Jack's shoulder. Jack looks unhappy. After they enter the Christmas Tree Plaza...
There are dozens of presents scattered around one giant present with a bow. Donald scuffles around inside the box
Dr. Finkelstein's experiment seems to be walking on it's own towards the presents. It picks up one and sees the giant one. It walks closer. Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Jack pop out of the box
They see only the experiment
It twirls it's arm around
They fight the doctor's experiment
Santa arrives in his sleigh
He leaps into the sleigh
Jack rides off in the sleigh
They return to Halloween Town Square
Donald nods
The doctor spins his wheelchair around and rides off
The hear the sound of ringing bells and Jack drops out of the sky. They see Santa in his sleigh flying up near the moon
It starts to snow
He takes her hands in his
Sora, Donald, and Goofy are feeling a little bashful
Jack picks Sally up and jumps. They dance, hand in hand
They watch as Jack and Sally dance. Sora pictures himself and Kairi dancing, Kairi laughing. Sora smiles and chuckles. Sora, Donald, and Goofy return to the Gummi Ship. Sora pilots the Gummi Ship back to the Pride Lands. They walk through the Savannah and run into Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed
Ed laughs
Shenzi laughs
Shenzi laughs
All three laugh
They walk away
Sora, Donald, and Goofy reach Pride Rock and see a large darkness. An image of Scar appears through the darkness
He runs to it, but it disappears
They proceed up Pride Rock
The lioness leaves
Sora, Donald, and Goofy enter the King's Den
He calms down when he sees their worried faces
Sora nods
Simba and the others stand defiantly
They laugh
They walk to the Stone Hollow
They run across the Savannah and enter the Elephant Graveyard and see several fires and the hyenas
Ed laughs
The hyenas run throughout the graveyard, just waiting to be caught
Ed laughs
Ed laughs as the ghost appears behind them
Simba starts to back away
Simba runs away
The ghost vanishes. The three hyenas laugh and leave
They return to Pride Rock
They hurry to the Jungle. Simba is dreaming in the Oasis. He wakes up suddenly
Simba whirls around and growls. Sora, Donald, and Goofy walk in and see Simba with the ghost. Simba is backing away toward the cliff, the ghost pressing forward. A very familiar scene
They run up and the ghost vanishes
Sora and Donald start to leave. Goofy stays there
Goofy slowly follows them. The ghost appears again. Sora, Donald, and Goofy hide behind a log
Simba glares at the ghost
Simba leaps at Scar's ghost and it vanishes. Sora, Donald, and Goofy run in
Timon runs in
Simba starts to run back to Pride Rock
The rest of them join Simba and they run back to the Pride Lands. Pumbaa is standing between Nala and Scar's ghost in total fright
Sora, Donald, and Goofy turn around, bowing as Simba walks through them
The ghost walks toward Simba and stares at him
The ghost disappears
Simba and Nala embrace, until dark energy clashes in the Savannah
Sora, Donald, and Goofy bow. They run to the Savannah. The dark energy gathers and forms an unbelievably large Heartless, the Groundshaker. Sora and Simba defeat the large Heartless and it disappears. Later, they meet on Pride Rock
He points to the sky. They look up
He laughs
He holds up his staff
Timon and Pumbaa nod. Sora, Donald, and Goofy run down the side of Pride Rock. Beneath the lion painting in the Stone Hollow, now there is three more, a lion cub, a duck, and a dog. Sora, Donald, and Goofy return to the Gummi Ship. They fly to Disney Castle at the behest of Chip and Dale and meet them in the Hall of the Cornerstone
They enter the portal and arrive on a barren world covered in pillars of stone. The dry ground cracks under their feet as they look around. Sand blows in the wind, revealing an armored figure kneeling on the ground. A Keyblade stands plunged into the ground before it, allowing the man to lean against it. The cape of the figure blows softly in the breeze and all is silent for several moments until the figure speaks
Sora, Donald, and Goofy ready their weapons as the figure remains unmoving
The figure puts a foot forward and stands upright. He grabs the Keyblade's handle with his right arm and pulls it slowly from the dry soil. They engage in battle with the Lingering Sentiment until he stands facing them again
Without another word, he plunges his Keyblade into the ground and kneels against it. Unable to retrieve any more answers from this place, Sora, Donald, and Goofy return to the Gummi Ship and fly to Hollow Bastion, where Heartless are running around
The town's defense system starts up
He hands an ice cream bar to Donald, who takes a lick
Goofy and Sora also have some
They continue to the Borough. One of the security system devices speeds past Donald, almost hitting him. Several Strafer Heartless appear. After defeating them, the door to Merlin's House opens and Yuffie walks out
They follow her into the house, where Cid is typing at the computer
Leon and Aerith walk into the Study. Leon enters the passageway to the computer room, and runs to the railing, looking down over the Heartless Manufactory. He runs into the computer room and types at the keyboard. The metal side door opens. Leon walks down into the Heartless Manufactory, where the machine's lasers are sending out Heartless
The Heartless speed off and Leon swipes them with his Gunblade. He runs back into the computer room. More Heartless appear in the Borough
An alarm sounds, as Aerith and Leon stand in the computer room. The computer screen reads: Ignorant users. Obey the MCP. Leon types on the keyboard, looking for a solution
Cid gives Merlin a look
Donald and Goofy nod. The three proceed to the Postern
They turn around and talk amongst themselves. Sora, Donald, and Goofy wait. Eventually, they return
Rikku floats over and inspects Sora
She searches Donald
She looks over Goofy
She flies over to Yuna
She whispers something in Yuna's ear
She lifts her hand and a treasure chest appears
The three fairies pose together and disappear. Sora opens the treasure chest and finds the Gull Wing Keychain. They continue to Ansem's Study. Leon hears someone enter and whirls around with his Gunblade
He puts the blade down as they walk in further
Aerith gives him a miffed look
Sora walks up the computer, it's threat message still displayed on the screen
He accesses the computer and they are transported to the Pit Cell. All around Space Paranoids, Heartless are walking around
Sora walks over to the computer terminal
They access the game grid. Leon enters Merlin's House, where Cid is typing away
Merlin creates a spell on his wand. Cid types in the last of the program code and the disk pops out
Merlin's spell hits the keyboard and knocks Cid to the floor. Cid holds up the disk, while on the floor
He stands up
He gives the disk to Leon
He looks at Cid, who back away slowly with his hands in sight. Leon nods and walks out when Cid's keyboard bursts into flames. Sora, Donald, and Goofy arrive at the game grid. Sora sees Tron amongst Heartless running everywhere
Tron throws his Identity Disk at one of them
A Devastator Heartless shoots a ball of energy at Tron. Tron catches his Identity Disk, and the ball knocks Tron to the ground
They defeat the Heartless and return to the Pit Cell
Sora nods
They run through the Canyon and take a transport to the I/O Tower. Leon runs through the Restoration Site cleaving through Heartless to get the disk to the Postern. Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Tron run through the Hallway of the I/O Tower
Heartless appear
They defeat the Heartless and head for the Communications Room. Leon hurries into the computer room and types on the keyboard
Leon struggles with the computer. He pounds his fists on the keyboard
He hands her the disk. She nods
Aerith walks to the drive and inserts the disk
Aerith celebrates and Leon crosses his arms. In the Communications Room, they stand around the center system
The system lights up and Tron smiles
Tron jumps up onto the system and takes off his Identity Disk from his back. He holds it and it glows. It floats upwards into the glowing system, then returns to Tron with the program inside. Tron looks at the disk
Tron jumps off the system
Sora nods
They run to the Simulation Hanger, just outside the Hallway, and board a solar sailer simulation. Tron accesses the device and it's wings appear. The sailer leaves the hangar across the data stream
A Heartless floats up behind Sora and lands on the bridge of the sailer. The sailer tries to maintain flight as the weight of the Heartless that appear threaten to make it fall. Luckily, they defeat the Heartless before that could happen. The solar sailer stops at the Central Computer Mesa
Donald and Goofy nod and look to the Central Computer Core. They run into the Core and look up to the red spinning CPU. Commander Sark is standing, waiting for them
They defeat Sark's Heartless, then take on Sark himself. The Commander tries to stand, but weakly
Tron sends his Identity Disk whirling at Sark. It strikes his helmet and he lands on the floor, data pulses dying off. Tron looks to the large spinning column
The MCP stops spinning
The Commander's body is still lying there
A wave of data shines down onto Sark's neck. His body courses with energy. The Commander stands up, higher than ever, as he's grown several feet high. He stomps over to them. The MCP forms a data barrier around himself
They manage to defeat Sark, and fire a beam from Tron's Identity Disk at the heart of the MCP. The MCP turns blue and vanishes. The data streams in Sark become corrupt and he disappears. Tron jumps for joy
Sora spins around
He holds out a hand to Sora. He takes it, and Tron pulls him into a hug
Tron gives Goofy and Donald a hug
He starts to back away slowly
He waves, and then jumps into the core, where the MCP was deleted. Sora, Donald, and Goofy run to the edge and watch him fall
There is a large rumbling and several systems come back online. Yuffie runs into the computer room
The transfer system starts up and Sora, Donald, and Goofy appear in the room
Sora nods sadly
She wags a finger in his face
An alarm sounds
The alarm stops
Donald runs to the keyboard
He starts typing
Sora grins, and starts to walk to the computer. Goofy laughs
He starts typing
Sora and Donald laugh. Sora types some more
Sora stops typing
Outside in the Restoration Site, Cloud looks up at the sky and sees beams of light shooting upward
Magical shards of light fall down around the city
Sora, Aerith, Yuffie, Donald, and Goofy walk outside to the Postern
Having found all the Torn Pages, Sora decides to check in on Pooh in the 100 Acre Wood. He enters Piglet's House, where the leaves are falling from the trees. Pooh is there with Gopher
Gopher returns to his hole in the ground
He sits down and pokes his head. Sora enters and a strong breeze picks up. So strong, that a hunny pot flies into his head
He rubs his head
The breeze blows through again and Piglet comes flying through the air, past Sora
Piglet flies onto a tree branch and holds on
Sora runs to the tree and rescues Piglet
Pooh walks over to them
Piglet walks off crying, then is picked up by the breeze again
Owl arrives
Piglet ends up in an even higher tree
He lets go of the branch, covers his eyes, and jumps. Sora misses Piglet and Pooh catches him, but falls over
Pooh stands up
Sora walks to Rabbit's House and sees Pooh flying in with a blue balloon, heading straight for Eeyore's house of sticks
Sora and Piglet run across the bridge. Pooh crashes and lets go of the balloon
Pooh stands up
Pooh's stomach rumbles
He walks around to the other side of Rabbit's House. Rabbit is carefully stacking hunny pots
They see the pot stack
He sits down and starts eating
When Rabbit returns carrying another pot, Pooh has already eaten up all the honey
Rabbit reluctantly gives him the pot. Pooh sits down and starts eating
Pooh has finished the honey and stands up
They eventually find the hidden honey
Pooh eats all the honey
They all sigh. Pooh walks over to the entrance to Rabbit's House
Pooh gets into the hole, but gets stuck, flailing his legs on the outside
Sora grabs Pooh's legs, Rabbit grabs Sora, Eeyore grabs Rabbit, and Piglet grabs Eeyore's tail. They all heave and try to pull Pooh out
Pooh pops out of the hole, flies through the air, and lands on the ground
Sora bends down and points to himself, smiling
Sora sighs
Sora travels to Kanga's House. He sees Pooh and Piglet there
Kanga hops toward them, with Roo in her pouch. She is holding a bottle
Tigger bounces in on his tail
He spins around and poses with his arms in the air
He snatches the bottle and bounces away, singing to himself
They catch up with Tigger and explain everything
Tigger bounces around Sora
They all have fun jumping
Tigger gasps, then looks down
Tigger tosses the medicine bottle behind him. It lands in front of Piglet
Tigger turns around happily
Tigger laughs and bounces around
At home, Pooh sits on the floor and falls asleep. He drifts out of his body and into his memories. All his friends are gathered on the hill. A boy in shadow is about to leave
Sora enters the Spooky Cave and sees everyone gathered there
They look deeper into the cave
They choose to go look for Pooh. They find him in a cave made of crystal
Tigger bounces Pooh
Pooh's tummy rumbles
He offers a hand to Pooh, who takes it. Everyone leaves the cave together. Sora enters Starry Hill
Sora sees Pooh on the hill with a hunny pot over his head
Sora runs up the hill to Pooh
Sora swings Pooh around by the hunny pot. The pot flies off and he catches Pooh. They both sit together on the log under the gigantic moon
Sora looks up at the moon
He points to Pooh's heart
Rabbit, Tigger, Eeyore, Gopher, Kanga, Roo, and Owl join them
Sora laughs
Sora hops off the log
He touches his heart
Sora looks around at everyone
Pooh smiles
He hops off the hill and waves to them. They each wave back. The book closes and the cover is fixed, now showing Pooh and Sora beneath the stars. Sora, Donald, and Goofy proceed to the Dark Depths and find Sephiroth
He whips out his masamune
The sword almost touches Sora, but he jumps backwards and gets out the Keyblade
Sora fights a coarse battle with Sephiroth
He turns around
They return to the Marketplace and find Cloud there. Sora explains everything
Cloud walks past the group silently, his face expressionless
Sora returns to the Dark Depths, where Sephiroth is waiting
Sephiroth turns toward the entrance to the Dark Depths and sees Cloud walk in
Sephiroth walks closer and holds up his masamune
Cloud runs at Sephiroth, who jumps into the air. Cloud looks up and jumps at him. The two exchange blows with their swords in midair
Sephiroth knocks Cloud back. He spins to the wall, and jumps higher in the air. Sephiroth charges after him. Cloud cleaves his sword downward and strikes the blocking sword of Sephiroth several times. Sephiroth retaliates and Cloud dodges backwards. Sephiroth goes in for three more strikes, which Cloud blocks, but is still pushed back. Sephiroth hits him upward, then down to the ground. Before he hits, Cloud spins to gain a footing. He dodges as Sephiroth shoots down at him with the masamune. Cloud lands on the rock wall and runs along it. He jumps and swings at Sephiroth. Their swords clash and they switch sides. Cloud catches himself as he falls. They both turn around and strike. Their swords are locked together, neither one backing down. They glare at each other
The swords part and Sephiroth cleaves down as Cloud dodges back. He readies his sword again
Sephiroth moves his sword toward Tifa, who jumps back
He brings his sword down, but she dodges and moves forward to punch him. She misses and catches her footing on his other side. A flash of light hinders Cloud
Tifa delivers two punches and two kicks, but all are dodged by Sephiroth. He knocks her backwards. She slides along the rocky ground. He strikes at her with his masamune four times, but she dodges each one. Cloud sees another flash of light
Another flash. Sephiroth flies in toward Tifa, but Cloud jumps into the middle. He holds his sword out toward Sephiroth
Cloud glows with a blue aura
He launches himself towards Cloud, but stops as Cloud glows with yellow light. Cloud and Sephiroth soar into the air with a flash of light
Sora, Donald, and Goofy see Tifa standing alone
Tifa walks over to them
She thinks
She hands him the Fenrir keychain
They think it over, but she's already started leaving. Sora, Donald, and Goofy board the Gummi Ship
Sora, Donald, and Goofy travel through the Assault of the Dreadnought to get to Twilight Town
Goofy takes out the photograph
When they reach the Old Mansion, they see the gate open and Pence, Hayner, and Olette lying on the ground. Sora runs to Hayner
Hayner starts to get up
Goofy nods and takes out the crystal and the munny pouch
Sora thinks
Sora, Donald, and Goofy look at each other
A few Dusks appear. King Mickey swoops down and slices them
They fight alongside Mickey to defeat the Nobodies
Mickey covers his mouth
Sora turns to face the mansion
They all enter the Mansion Foyer
Through the Library, they walk into the Computer Room. They see a desk with several monitors
Pence sits down at the computer and starts pressing buttons
Sora thinks
Goofy takes out the photo
Pence types it in
The odd machine near the wall buzzes to life
Sora, Donald, Goofy and Mickey enter the machine and are turned to data. They reemerge in the Computer Room
They see the computer is completely totaled
He pictures Roxas smashing the computer to pieces
Mickey runs into the Basement Hall and they follow him. Inside, they see a black and green portal of light
They enter the portal and find themselves in Betwixt and Between. Nobody symbols float everywhere in all directions
They are surrounded by Nobodies. They try to fight, but they just keep coming
Axel jumps in and slices at a few Nobodies with his chakram
Two Nobodies pull Axel to the ground. Sora runs over and knocks the Nobodies away
A Dusk appears, flying at Sora and Axel. Sora whirls around and knocks it out
Sora and Axel fight the Nobodies, but the horde shows no signs of slowing down
He jumps into the center and focuses his energy. His chakram spin around him spouting fire. He screams, creating a gigantic torrent of flames which obliterates the Nobody horde
They see Axel lying on the floor. Sora rushes over to him
Axel laughs weakly
He holds up his hand and opens a portal
Axel fades completely away with the smallest flicker of flame. Sora, Donald, and Goofy stand before the portal
Sora walks through the portal. Meanwhile, Xemnas sits with Xigbar, Luxord, and Sax in the white room
Sax stares at the floor
Sax looks up
He stares at Roxas's empty seat. Sora exits with Donald, Goofy, and Mickey in the alley of a dark city. Mickey walks back to the street and looks up at the sky. Sora, Donald, and Goofy run to see what he's looking at, a giant flying fortress almost covering a heart-shaped moon. It seems a haunting welcome to The World That Never Was
Thunder sounds from the sky and dark clouds swirl
They leave the Alley to Between and travel through Fragment Crossing. They reach Memory's Skyscraper and it starts to rain. Sora looks up. Lightning flashes through the sky. They hear the sound of steel
Sora turns around and sees Samurai Nobodies blocking Donald and Goofy
Sora tries to run to them, but his vision gets hazy. He turns around and sees a figure in a black cloak appear. The Oblivion Keyblade appears in his hand
He runs at Sora, who blocks with his Keyblade. There is a flash and they end up on the Station of Awakening. Roxas is now holding the Oblivion and the Oathkeeper. Sora fights Roxas. They run at each other and block attacks
Sora knocks him back
He runs at Sora, scraping the Keyblades on the ground with a screech, sending up sparks. He attacks Sora, but Sora dodges. Sora blocks the Oblivion with his Keyblade, and knocks it away. The Oathkeeper strikes upward, but is also parried. Downward again, more blocking from Sora. The figure jumps into the air, spins and lands on his feet. He jumps at Sora, who leaps to dodge. Sora is hit by the Oblivion and thrown up in the air. The cloaked man jumps up towards him. Sora flips upside down and blocks both Keyblades, then flies to his feet on the floor. The figure hover above and notices the tiles on the floor of Riku, Kairi, Donald, and Goofy
He falls to the floor and tries to strike Sora with the Oblivion. Sora jumps away and continues to dodge his attacks. Sora deflects one strike, opening the way for the man to pound continuously on his blocking Keyblade. Sora falls on one knee and his Keyblade is knocked away from him. Sora runs to it, but the man stops him, slamming the Oathkeeper into the floor between Sora and his Keyblade. Sora slides to a stop. The man points at him with the Oblivion. Sora struggles against his anger. He holds his hand out toward the Keyblade, and it disappears from the Oathkeeper's hold
The Keyblade flashes into Sora's hands and he strikes the man down. The two Keyblades drop and vanish. The man begins to walk past Sora. His mind flashes back to previous events. In front of the Old Mansion in Twilight Town, Roxas stands upright. He faces downward and seems lifeless. A hooded figure appears and walks toward him
Roxas nods, still facing the ground. The figure waves a hand in front of him. The name 'SORA' appears in sharp, smoky letters, floating in the air in front of his face. Roxas looks up at it, then back towards the ground
Roxas nods again. The man waves his arm again and the letters swirl around Roxas, gaining momentum until they're barely visible as letters. The man slams his fist into them and four points of golden light shoot out, forcing Roxas to flinch. He opens his eyes and sees a new golden letter X hovering before him. The silver letters rejoin with the X in their center forming a new word, turning fully golden. Roxas looks up at them
The scene switches to the Twilight Town clock tower, where Roxas it sitting with his head in his lap. He looks up partly
He gasps and turns to see Axel standing beside him
Roxas looks down
Axel sits down next to him. Roxas listens intently
He looks down again
Axel hands Roxas a sea-salt ice cream bar. He's a bit taken aback, but accepts it. Roxas stares a bit, while Axel nibbles on his
Roxas nods
Axel looks sad
Axel looks away and takes a bite out of his ice cream
They sit in silence, gazing at the view for a few moments. They start to glow
A single tear falls onto the tower roof. The scene flashes back to the Station of Awakening. The hooded man walks past Sora and stumbles, his hood flying off, revealing his golden hair. He stands up and turns to Sora
The world fades to white and Sora is back in the city. It has stopped raining
Donald and Goofy walk on ahead, as Sora stops and takes another look behind him. Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Mickey reach The Brink of Despair and see the enormous swirling fortress. The road ends there
In her prison cell, Kairi is kept company by Pluto. She pets his head, and his ear perks up. She stands up and walks to the bars of the cell to see who's coming
Sax leaves
A black portal appears at the back of the cell. Pluto barks at it and Kairi turns around. Namin is inside
Kairi walks over and takes Namin's hand, which then glows with light. A section of the flying castle shines brightly, causing Sora to block it with his hand. The Keyblade appears and Sora takes it. He points it to the center of the castle and a beam shoots out
Sora, Donald, Goofy, and the King walk up the ramp that appears and enter Nothing's Call
Mickey runs off
Namin and Kairi run down the steps at Twilight's View, Pluto following behind. Namin's form shakes slightly. They stop running when they see Berserker Nobodies and Sax appears
He holds out his left hand
Kairi gets defensive. Sax retreats his hand
They hear the sound of a sword. Sax turns around and the Berserker Nobodies fall to the ground and disappear. Behind them is another figure in a black cloak holding a wing-like Keyblade
The figure's Keyblade disappears, and he shoots a Dark Firaga at Sax. Sax blocks with his arms, then jumps backwards. The figure grabs him and slams him against the wall. Sax puts a hand to the wall and creates a dark portal. He smiles as he escapes into it. The figure starts to enter
Pluto runs up to him. The man backs away from the dog, but it stays with him. Kairi walks up
She takes off his hood and reveals the figure of Ansem, who looks away from her. Sora and company continue through Nothing's Call to Crooked Ascension. They enter Twilight's View and ready themselves for the Hall of Empty Melodies
They look and see Sax on a very elaborate high ledge
He points to the moon
Sax snaps his fingers and hundreds of Shadow Heartless emerge from the walls
Sora looks up to see Kairi on another ledge
Shadows cover Sora. Kairi gasps
Kairi takes a few steps back and leaps over the railing and off the ledge. She hits the ground running and the Shadows overtake her
There's a flash of light and the Heartless covering Kairi disappear, and she's taken by the arm of Ansem, who hands her a Keyblade
Kairi takes the Keyblade in her hand
He watches as she runs into the fight, bashing Heartless with the blade. He readies his Keyblade and rushes in. Sax watches from above. Something catches his eye. Maleficent and Pete enter on the opposite ledge
He chuckles and vanishes
The moon shines brightly in the sky as King Mickey runs through the castle, knocking out Heartless and Nobodies. He finds DiZ on the floor, surrounded by Nobodies, and takes them out. Mickey helps DiZ to stand. There is an odd-looking device next to him. DiZ reaches to his face and a long red sash falls to the floor
Ansem turns to look at the moon
He picks up the strange device, and he and Mickey walk inside
He looks up at Kairi and Ansem fighting off the Heartless
Above, a katar takes aim and shoots. The shard lands on the battleground near Sora. He looks up and sees a myriad of projectiles, which obliterate the Heartless
Xigbar appears on the elaborate ledge
Donald nods
He throws each of his hands up and his shooing katars appear. He throws them to his sides and cocks them
Xigbar jumps down to the floor where they stand and smirks
He spins his katars around and locks them together. He teleports up to the ledge
He aims at Sora and fires. Sora warps to each of the projectiles he shoots and knocks them back
Xigbar teleports back down to the group. Sora fights him until he can no longer hold up his katar. It clatters to the floor
Xigbar looks up at him
He begins to fade away
Mickey and Ansem the Wise arrive and look over the ledge at Kairi and Ansem fighting the Heartless
The two kings leave the Hall of Empty Melodies
They pass through Naught's Skyway and enter the upper tier of the Hall of Empty Melodies. Millions of hearts float and merge with the heart-shaped moon. Xemnas watches
He lifts his arms to the moon and Sax appears
Sora, Donald, and Goofy find Kairi and Ansem
She turns around and sees them, bashfully flipping her hair. Sora walks up to her
Sora looks away from her
Kairi rushes up and hugs him, much to Sora's surprise
He hugs her back. A portal appears behind Ansem, and he begins to walk into it
He stops and the portal vanishes
Ansem starts to leave, but Kairi runs over and stops him
Sora, Donald, and Goofy are surprised
Sora walks over. Kairi takes his hand
She places his hands together with hers
Sora does so, as Ansem looks at him. Sora sees Riku in a black cloak. He is holding the hands of Sora and Kairi. Sora opens his eyes and realizes
Sora falls to his knees, holding Ansem's hand, tears rolling down his face
He looks at himself
Donald, Goofy, and Kairi nod
Ansem the Wise and Mickey find the closest ledge to Kingdom Hearts
Ansem sets the device down
He starts up the device, which shoots a steady beam at the moon. Sora, Donald, Goofy, Kairi, and Riku enter the Proof of Existence. The room feels like a graveyard, and all but three of the gravestones are damaged. They enter one of them and end up in Havoc's Divide. They look up to Kingdom Hearts and see a beam connected to it
Sora nods. They start to leave, but Luxord appears, separating Sora from the rest of the group. He snaps his fingers and large cards rise and cover Donald, Goofy, Riku, and Kairi. The cards spin around them. Luxord snaps his fingers again, and the cards fly away, with Sora's friends missing
Sora fights a time battle with Luxord
Sora slashes his Keyblade and runs at Luxord for a final blow. Luxord surrounds himself with cards. Sora slashes right through the cards, slicing them in half, and striking Luxord
Luxord fades away. The cards fly back in and return his friends
They return to the Proof of Existence
They enter Addled Impasse and find Sax looking up through a large window at Kingdom Hearts. He smiles at them when they enter
There is a claymore in his hand
Donald and Goofy stand in front of him
Sax's claymore becomes super-sharp
He thrusts the claymore forward and a wave of vibration shoots forward toward them. Riku runs to cover Kairi, and it send them sliding forward. A barrier forms and they are blocked out. They can only watch at Sora, Donald, and Goofy fight Sax
After an intense battle, Sax falls
He drops his claymore, which crashes to the floor, and turns toward the window, looking up at the moon
He reaches out to it as he fades away
The scene flashes back to the fight. Riku, blindfolded, stands up and walks toward Roxas. He lifts the Oblivion Keyblade and strikes it into the ground next to Roxas. The scene is silent for a moment before Roxas starts to move, startling him. Roxas struggles, grabbing the Keyblade and pulling it out of the ground, slashing at Riku with lightning speed. He leaps away. Roxas gets up and runs toward him with the Keyblade. Riku sends a Dark Firaga spell at Roxas, who blasts through it and continues his attack. He dodges again
Roxas looks surprised
He places a hand near his mouth with an incredulous look
Roxas throws his hand up and the Oathkeeper flashes into it. He rushes Riku and jumps into the air. Riku dodges again. Roxas swings around and slashes the Keyblade across his arm. Riku flew from Roxas's blow as he slumps, kneeling, to the ground
He stands up
He takes off his blindfold and lets it fall to the ground
He braces himself and cries out, being lifted into the air. Wind flies around his face as dark energy envelopes him. Roxas readies his Keyblades again. The smoke dissipates, revealing Ansem and his Heartless Guardian suspended in midair. Ansem is garbed in the same black cloak. He vanishes suddenly, surprising Roxas. Ansem reappears just a foot away. The Guardian's large muscular arm reaches out and grabs him by the chest. Fear laces the boy's face and he struggles to free himself as the arm lifts him into the air. His legs hang aimlessly and his movement is futile. He drops his Keyblades and they disappear after clanging to the ground. Roxas stops moving
Later, Ansem stands over the motionless body of Roxas, staring at him. A dark portal appears and he quickly hoods himself as DiZ enters. DiZ looks down at Roxas
The flashback ends
Riku walks closer to Sora and points to his heart. Sora points also and looks at Riku, who nods
They follow him back to the Proof of Existence, and notice that the path ahead is open. They walk up the stairs to Naught's Approach. The beam from Ansem's device is starting to weaken, and it shakes in his hands
Ansem laughs
The device starts to short
Sora's group runs to them
Riku grabs the King's arm
Xemnas appears
Electricity surges through and around the device
The machine sparks and explodes. Sora tries to run for Ansem, but is stopped by Riku. Kairi holds on to Mickey. Donald trips as he tries to run in front of Goofy. Light flashes and pushes them backwards in a giant swirling tunnel. Millions of hearts fall around the Castle That Never Was. Nobodies dance in the streets. The hearts disappear and Heartless arrive. A heart for every Heartless. A gigantic horde race up the ramp toward the castle. The group wakes up on the floor. Sora sees Riku and his flowing silver hair. He is blindfolded
Riku gets himself up
Riku looks ahead
Riku grabs his blindfold and pulls it from his face. His eyes are finally opened
Sora runs to Donald, Goofy, Mickey, and Kairi
Riku looks at each of them in turn
He smirks
Tons of hearts are flying to Kingdom Hearts, which has taken on a darker look, as if infected. They look down below and see millions of Heartless storming the castle
Riku whips off his cloak
Sora nods and they continue. The cloak flies through the air. They enter Ruin and Creation's Passage and battle through the floating platforms. They start to run to the next area
Kairi points up at the oddly shaped windows where Heartless are literally pouring inside. They crawl up the hexagonal pathways between the platforms
Maleficent and Pete appear in front of them
Pete thinks about it
Pete backs away until he notices Mickey
Pete rejoins Maleficent
They rush into the brawl
The group continues into The Altar of Naught, and find Xemnas raising his arms to the moon
He turns around and faces them
They each point at him with their appearing Keyblades
He throws his arms up and energy surrounds them. It takes Sora to Memory's Skyscraper, but the landscape is completely warped and the environment is nonexistent, like a waving flag in the background
He looks around, but his friends are nowhere to be found. Xemnas stands before him. He vanishes and a barrier forms around Sora, sapping his energy. He runs to the skyscraper, where Xemnas is standing on top. Sora looks up, and the barrier disappears. Xemnas's hands coarse with blue lightning. Sora jumps to the top of the entrance and runs up the building. Xemnas jumps up, flips downward, and conjures two red beam swords. He flies down the tower and meets Sora on the giant video screen. Sora slams Xemnas into the building, stunning him and they both fall to the ground. At the end of the battle, it is still raining.
Xemnas is laying on the ground away from Sora. Xemnas fades away
The area vanishes and Sora falls back at the Altar of Naught with a flash of light
Donald looks around and sees Xemnas inside the moon
The moon glows insanely bright and Xemnas disappears
A door appears
Sora nods
Sora, Mickey, and Riku touch each other's Keyblades together and hold them up. Beams shoot from their blades and the door opens
All six of them enter the door and see almost an entire world inside. Sora gasps as he sees Xemnas in the center of it all
He sends a building after them. They run back and the building collapses on the ground. The door starts to close with Mickey and Kairi on the other side
He is too late and the door closes
Several windowed walls punch up from the floor blocking them from continuing. Sora slices through them with his Keyblade and they run further inside. Xemnas's gigantic mecha flies into the sky and slams back down onto the ground. The platform they're standing on rises up to the mecha's level. Several buildings fly through the air toward them. Sora jumps up and breaks some of them apart with the Keyblade. He runs across the top of them and slices through. The last one sends them into the cylinder of the flying mecha. Nobodies appear, which they send into the core of the cylinder. They jump onto the side pipes, dodging the large wave of energy which erupts from the cylinder. They jump to the other cylinder and slide across the grate. More enemies appear and are knocked into the other cylinder, which also erupts into a surge of energy. They dodge and reach the other cylinder in time. They dodge the explosion and the cylinder drops off the mecha. As the second cylinder is destroyed, the group jump up to the energy core and attack it, stopping it. They come face to face with Xemnas, sitting like a king, armored on his throne. He has many weapons in his arsenal
At the end of the battle, combined of katars, naginata, and magical cards, Xemnas screams in agony. They all appear back at the Altar of Naught. Xemnas falls to his knees, clutching his chest
Xemnas fades away. They celebrate at his defeat
Sora squishes his face in and makes Riku laugh. The building shakes
He holds out a hand and nothing happens
They turn around and see an image of Namin. She opens a portal. Mickey and Donald run right through her to the portal
Pluto barks in, runs around Mickey and Donald, and into the portal
Goofy runs into the portal followed by Mickey
Donald enters and Namin appears
Roxas walks out of Sora
Roxas walks to the side of her
Kairi takes Namin's hand, and they both glow. Namin is transferred into Kairi
Roxas closes his eyes, and fades away. Sora glows, having taken Roxas back into himself
Kairi walks inside the portal and it starts to close. Sora and Riku run to it, as Kairi turns back
She reaches for them but the portal closes and dissipates
There's a flash of light and the two see a nesting core. The giant flying mecha bursts out of the core and flies toward them. It knocks into the castle tower and roars. The tower breaks and starts to collapse. Sora and Riku slide toward the ground. Riku sees a hovercraft and runs toward it
Riku jumps off the falling tower and onto the hovercraft. He flies it up to the tower
Sora jumps on and the mecha flies up alongside them. They attack several parts of the mecha with lasers from the hovercraft. They watch as it crashes to the ground. Energy swirls around it and the area is filled with smoke. The smoke clears to show a larger mecha equipped with even more guns. Xemnas, in his kingly armor sits at the head. Sora and Riku fly to the head of the mecha and jump off. The hovercraft is lost in the huge swirling abyss. They ready their Keyblades
The armored Xemnas lifts his head. They start to fight him, when he shoots them into the abyss
Sora glides to a discarded building and smashes it with his Keyblade. Riku rides the building as it crashes into the mecha. He slams his Keyblade into it and splits the building in half, breaking the mecha's shield. Xemnas shouts
Sora and Riku glide back to the head of the mecha and start beating up Xemnas again. At the final strike, there is a flash of light and Sora and Riku appear in a gray area. Xemnas stands before him in a black and white outfit
Xemnas's hands spark with blue energy
They attack Xemnas, dodging his thorned vines and red lasers. Xemnas blocks Sora in a sphere of blue energy.
(Riku jumps up to stop it, but is hit by the energy and knocked away
Xemnas sends out an image of himself against Riku, while he continues to hold Sora
Riku blasts through the clone and keeps running. When he reaches Sora and Xemnas, he punches in and grabs Xemnas's hand. The barrier blocking Sora vanishes and he falls to the ground. Riku takes the hilt of his blade and smacks Xemnas in the face. He grabs Xemnas horizontally and spins him around, throwing him
Xemnas forms two spheres of energy in each hand and melds them together. He lifts them over his head and black thorns pierce outwards. Everything around them turns black
In the darkness, a thousand points of light appear. Xemnas laughs as he sends each of those thousand lasers directly at Sora and Riku. They deflect them with spinning Keyblades. There's a flash of light and Sora and Riku are staring down Xemnas. Xemnas knocks Riku back
Xemnas holds a beam sword to Sora's head. Riku looks up. Xemnas swings his arms back to hit Sora, but Riku gets up in a flash and blocks with his Keyblade. Xemnas swings around. Riku pushes Sora out of the way and gets a strong hit with the beam sword in his left side. Riku falls. Sora catches himself and leaps forward. He grabs Riku's Keyblade and slams it into Xemnas's chest. Sora smashes Xemnas with his and Riku's blades, spinning him back. Sora crosses the Keyblades and knocks Xemnas high into the air. They both spin around and Sora lands next to Riku
Riku nods and takes Sora's Keyblade and hand. They both send a beam through Xemnas
Xemnas angrily reaches out to them as he fades away in wisps and smoke.
(They ready themselves for the battle. The hundreds of Nobodies are eventually defeated. Riku falls to his knees
Sora puts Riku's arm over his shoulder and helps him up
They start walking, anywhere, just walking
Sora looks ahead
They walk into the light and end up on a dark beach
Sora helps him stand and walks to the water
He turns around and sees Riku lying on the ground
Sora nods and helps Riku up
They sit on the waterside for a time
They look up at the starless sky and close their eyes, feeling the breeze on their skin and hearing the sound of the waves. A bottle washes up between Riku's legs and he picks it up and opens it. There is a note inside. He reads the letter
He hands it to Sora, who reads it
A light appears over the water before Sora and Riku
He stands up and offers his hand to Riku
They stands up and enter the light. The waves at the Destiny Islands are relatively calm as two falling stars grace the sky. Sora and Riku land in the water, and surface
They look and see Kairi waving to them on the shore. Sora and Riku swim to shore. Mickey, Donald, and Goofy run past Kairi to the water, much to Sora's surprise. Goofy and Donald jump on Sora and knock him back into the water. Sora sits up as Goofy hugs him and Donald wipes his eye. Mickey runs to Riku, who picks him up and spins him around. Donald and Goofy hug Sora and look at Mickey and Riku. Kairi giggles, smiling. Sora takes out the Oathkeeper keychain. He looks up and takes the form of Roxas. Namin smiles back at him
Sora grabs her hand with his, both cupping the lucky charm. In the Disney Castle Throne Room, Daisy, Chip, Dale, and Minnie are greeted by Goofy, Pluto, Donald, Huey, Dewey, Louie, and Uncle Scrooge. Daisy runs to Donald and hugs him. Mickey and Minnie rub noses together. Hayner and Seifer face off in a new Struggle Tournament in the Sandlot in Twilight Town. Pooh and his friends march through Rabbit's garden in the Hundred Acre Wood. At night, they sit and watch the moon from Starry Hill. Ling, Yao, and Chien-Po peek out from the bushes to watch Mulan and Shang. As the two move in for the kiss, they fall out from behind the bushes. Mulan giggles and Mushu pops onto her shoulder. Belle walks into the ballroom for a dance with...the Prince. They swirl around the dance floor. Hercules, Meg, Phil, and Pegasus admire the newly restored Coliseum. Auron returns to the Farplane, scattering pyreflies. Hercules and Meg watch as the pyreflies dance around the Coliseum Gates. Will, Jack Sparrow, and Elizabeth are sailing on the Black Pearl. The moon comes out and Jack checks himself. He's still human. He kisses the treasure piece in his hand and turns the helm. The ship sails on. The Mayor and Jack Skellington are arranging a special Halloween in Dr. Finkelstein's lab in Halloween Town. In Space Paranoids, Tron receives a program on his Identity Disk and places it on his back. He checks to see if he feels any different and shrugs. He walks of out the Communications Room, feeling an urge to dance. Captain Pete fixes his hat on the bow of the steamboat. Mickey runs into the wharf and hurries onto the boat as it chugs down Timeless River. He waves as it leaves. Aladdin and Jasmine go for a magic carpet ride over Agrabah. Genie flies next to them. They fly off into the sky. Prince Eric and Ariel have a lovely wedding on a cruise ship. They wave to Ariel's friends and share a kiss. In the Pride Lands, Nala and Simba nuzzle each other until Rafiki walks through with a baby girl. He holds it up on the edge of Pride Rock to the ray of sunlight beaming down from the clouds. The Pride Lands are now lush and green. In the Radiant Garden, Cid is typing at his computer until Yuffie brings him a Sea-Salt Ice Cream bar. Yuna, Rikku, and Paine fly in and Rikku steals Yuffie's ice cream bar. She chases after the three fairies. Leon receives a letter and a magical image of a butterfly floats out. At the cliffs, Aerith looks to the sky. Sora walks into the Secret Place. The light shines down through the holes in the ceiling. He looks around at the cave drawings until coming to his old one of him giving a paopu fruit to Kairi. The picture is changed. Kairi has given one to him as well. Later, Sora meets Riku at the paopu tree overlooking the water
Riku points to his heart
Sora smiles
Kairi runs to them with a message in a bottle
She shows it to him, and they see King Mickey's seal on the letter
Sora takes it from her, dumps the message out, and they read it -------------------------------------------------------------------------------THE GATHERING In a dusty barren landscape, save a few plants, the Ansem Reports fly overhead. Words appear on the screen The Keyblade is said to hold phenomenal power. One legend says its wielder saved the world, while another says that he wrought chaos and ruin upon it. I must know what this Keyblade is. A key opens doors. -(Ansem Report 8 There seems to be destruction everywhere. An armored figure with a cape stands amidst the devastation. He holds a Keyblade over his shoulder. Two more people in armor approach. They walk to a middleground where Sora, Mickey, and Riku's Keyblades are stuck in the ground. The destruction behind them melts away like sand. The three each take a Keyblade. Surrounding them on all sides, creating a four-way path, is an uncountable number of Keyblades. Through the dust, they see another figure walking toward them. Words appear on the screen
Master of keyblade The lost two Memory of Xehanort Chasers Keyblade War It all began with... birth by sleep.) -------------------------------------------------------------------------------BIRTH BY SLEEPBirth by sleep A tale of truth yet to be told
An elderly man walks toward three armored figures standing at a crossroads between fields of fallen Keyblades. The wind blows through their capes as they stand, their Keyblades at the ready. The old man stares at them through piercing orange eyes as his form shimmers. A blurred copy of him phases out from his body, flashing into the form of a young man with a black helmet wearing a sinewy skintight suit. The youngest armored wielder moves to start running, but the older man holds him back and runs ahead. The old man and his enigmatic companion stop, and he raises his arm just as the young man leaps toward him. A pillar of earth slams upward into him, toppling him to the ground. He looks up as a taller pillar shoots up in front of him, carrying the old man and his companion. The younger one with the helmet leaps off the pillar, casting an electrical spell down to the armored man. Bolts of lightning strike the ground around him, creating cracks in the armor, as another pillar of earth arises behind him and the young man lands before him. The armored woman rushes ahead of him and he glances up at the old man for a moment, before running forward. The old man cackles, motioning with his hand and the clouds grow dimmer above him. A huge whirlwind erupts from the ground, sending Keyblades spiraling into the air. The armored boy fights the young man in the helmet, their Keyblades clashing against one another. The boy swipes downward, but the other dodges back, summoning an ice spell, which is countered by a second ice spell aimed at him. The armored woman looks up, seeing the whirlwind of Keyblades, which dips toward her. The helmeted one runs alongside it and leaps aboard, sending more ice spells toward the armored woman and armored boy. The dark helmet leaps off as the Keyblades knock the boy over, and he continues releasing ice spells. The boy attacks the helmeted one, who knocks him back as the woman summons a lightning spell. The dark helmet leaps off the ground as the lightning courses over the earth and lands back on the swirling mass of Keyblades, riding it up into the air, slamming the armored man over. The woman watches as the man tumbles over the cliff, righting himself before thrusting his Keyblade into the side to slow his descent. The Keyblades continue to destroy the landscape, knocking the cliff- side over, causing the man to dangle. The earth buckles under the woman as the Keyblades shoot out of the ground, sending her flying and dropping her Keyblade. The swirling mass of blades continues forward, striking the man and forcing him through the rock. As the woman hits the ground, the boy rushes over to her, her helmet knocked off, revealing her blue hair. She grabs her Keyblade and aims it upward, sending a spell towards the man. It reaches him, sparking a blue hexagonal barrier around him, sending the Keyblades scattering. Another torrent of blades slams into the barrier, sending it skyward near the old man, before it freezes in place, ripples coursing through it. The barrier explodes, but the old man stares unblinking. The woman catches her breath as the Keyblade mass topples, sending the man to the ground. He stands haphazardly, making his way toward the old man, who whirls around and blocks his attack with his own Keyblade. He sends an ice spell toward the man, which knocks him back and crawls up his arm. The boy strikes from behind, but the old man teleports, grabbing the boy from behind. The old man smirks as the boy struggles, helplessly flailing his arms as the old man starts to crush his helmet in front of the armored man. The man attempts to move forward, but is flung back by another torrent of Keyblades as the helmeted one rejoins the old man. The woman looks up, seeing the boy, as his helmet is torn off. He gazes back at her as his body is riddled with dark flames before being frozen in ice. The old man casually tosses the boy over the cliff, breaking his Keyblade as he tumbles down, his helmet finally cracking apart. The woman leaps under and catches him as he hits the ground. She gazes down at the frozen youth's blue eyes and blond hair. The old man's Keyblade becomes a blue and pink orb. He smiles and lifts it skyward, sending it into the clouds. The gray clouds begin parting as a blue light spills out of them. The woman watches from below as a large blue heart-shaped moon appears in the sky Destiny is never left to chance
The armored man rips off his helmet, revealing his brown pointed hair and furious scowl. In the blink of an eye, his blue eyes turn yellow KINGDOM HEARTS Destiny is inevitable From a far away cliff, Mickey Mouse stares at the scene before him At long last destinies gather
Clouds form amongst darkness as words appear on the screen. Lightning strikes several clouds Disney Interactive Studios Square Enix Kingdom Hearts
The clouds part and the words rush the screen. A boy awakes, floating in a strange abyss, the keychain around his neck waving in the current of wind blowing upwards. Gold letters appear in the void ???? I've been having these weird thoughts lately... Like, is any of this for real or not?
The words fade away. The boy's heart pumps as he falls deeper into the abyss, his eyes closed. The empty nothingness becomes water, and bubbles form in the wake of his descent. He reaches a barrier and his eyes blink open with a flash. He finds himself standing on a sandy beach on a clear sunny day. He looks around and sees another boy in the water. Holding his hand up to block the glare of the sun, he steps toward the boy in the water to get a closer look. Suddenly, the ocean waters recede. He looks up and gasps. The boy in the water, turns his head, the breeze billowing through his silver hair, as a wave forms beyond. He smirks, holding his hand out as the wave reaches its pinnacle behind him. The boy with brown hair runs toward the boy in the water, who isn't moving. Time seems to slow down as the wave crashes down on top of them. The first boy spins in the water, gritting his teeth. He rights himself and stares at the other boy, who is unfazed, saying nothing with his arm beckoning. The first boy tries to reach him, but is swept away with the current. He eventually surfaces, gasping for air, the water dripping off of him as the sun hangs low in the sky. He sees a girl on the shore waving to him and calling his name. He waves back and starts padding towards shore as she bounces happily on her feet. The girl stands with her hands behind her back as he arrives. He bends down slightly, catching his breath and smirks up at her. She giggles until something in the sky catches her attention, her face forming a serious look. He stands up and turns around. A meteor shower rains down from the sky, a shadowy figure among them. They stare in awe, and the boy realizes the figure is himself. He gasps and feels himself falling. He becomes the figure in the sky as he falls below the girl, reaching out to her. She reaches out to him until the image of her ripples in water reflecting the sky. The boy falls back, eyes closed, sinking deeper as bubbles trail him. He stirs awake and manages to right himself before settling onto a dark platform. He looks around and takes a step forward. There is a flash of blinding light as a large flock of birds rise from the platform, flying in all directions and scattering feathers everywhere. The boy shields his eyes as the wind whips at him. He watches them leave while the last feathers fall. The platform now depicts a girl taking a bite out of an apple. The boy turns around seeing no one, yet hearing a voice Voice So much to do, so little time... Take your time. Don't be afraid. The door is still shut. Now, step forward. Can you do it?
The boy takes a few slow steps forward. A light shines down from above as a large stone pedestal rises from the platform in a shower of light and magic. The boy turns toward it. A red shield blinks into existence, floating above it Voice Power sleeps within you...
Another pedestal rises from the platform, a blue staff floating above it. He turns around to face it Voice If you give it form...
A third pedestal appears in front of the boy, who turns toward it. A metal sword appears in midair Voice It will give you strength.
The boy stares ahead at all three Voice Choose well.
The boy runs over to the staff and holds it in his hands Voice The power of the mystic. Inner strength. A staff of wonder and ruin. Is this the power you seek? ???? Yes.
Suddenly, the staff vanished from his hand Voice Your path is set.
The boy turned around to face the other two weapons Voice Now, what will you give up in exchange?
The boy approaches the sword and holds it up Voice The power of the warrior. Invincible courage. A sword of terrible destruction. You give up this power? ???? Yes.
The sword disappeared Voice You've chosen the power of the mystic. You've given up the power of the warrior. Is this the form you choose? ???? Yes.
The three stones suddenly sink into the floor, knocking the boy back onto the platform. The ground rumbles and he looks around. The edges of the platform crumble off and the platform shatters. The boy falls through darkness and lands on another platform, this time depicting a girl in a beautiful silver ball gown. The staff appears in his hand Voice You gained the power to fight.
He slashes at the air Voice All right! You've got it. Use this power to protect yourself and others.
Shadows appear Voice There will be times you have to fight. Keep your light burning strong.
The boy fights off the Shadows. They fade back into the floor. One crawls around to his back Voice Behind you!
The boy defeats all of the Shadows. A black void appears in the center of the platform and he is sucked into it. He bats the darkness away and wakes up on a multicolored platform with three silhouettes. He sees a door near the platform edge and walks toward it, examining it ???? I can't open it...
A treasure chest appears and he opens it. He turns around and a large crate and barrel appear. He smashes these items and opens the door. Light floods out from it and he walks through, squinting his eyes through the bright light. He arrives on a small island bridge where three kids stand quietly waiting Voice Hold on. The door won't open just yet. First, tell me more about yourself.
The boy walks over to a girl leaning against a rope fence ??????? What's most important to you? ???? Friendship. ??????? Is friendship such a big deal?
The boy talks to a boy with a large blue sport ball ????? What do you want outta life? ???? To be strong. ????? To be strong, huh?
The boy walks over to a boy with a large red stick in his hand ????? What are you so afraid of? ???? Being indecisive. ????? Being indecisive? Is that really so frightening? Voice You want friendship. You want to be strong. You're afraid of being indecisive. Your adventure begins in the dead of night. Your road won't be easy, but a rising sun awaits your journey's end. ???? Sounds good. Voice The day you will open the door is both far off and very near.
There is a flash of light and the boy finds himself on a platform of a sleeping woman clutching a rose. He walks across the platform and is surrounded by Shadows. He defeats them all and a light shines down, producing a glowing green circle, power radiating from it. He stands on the green circle and his cuts and bruises heal. The light splits off toward the edge of the platform and stairs of stained glass appear. The boy runs up the stairs onto another platform depicting a woman in a yellow dress and a hideous monster Voice The closer you get to the light, the greater your shadow becomes.
The boy turns around and sees his shadow move after he does. The boy starts to back away as the shadow pulls itself from the ground Voice But don't be afraid. And don't forget...
The shadow takes on the form of Darkside as the boy runs to the edge of the platform, nearly falling off. He turns to face Darkside as it rises to its full towering height, gazing at him with eerie glowing eyes. The staff appears in his hand and he stares at his only option. Darkside summons a ball of energy and punches the floor. The boy trembles as a void of darkness appears in the floor, summoning several Shadows. The boy swallows his fear and attacks them, while dodging larger blows from Darkside. As it punches the ground again, the boy seizes the opportunity and strikes at its wrist. Catching its attention, he jumps back and the staff vanishes from his hand. Terror fills his face as he is left weaponless and Darkside slams his fist into the ground, narrowly missing him. Sora falls in defeat and a dark void appears under him, sucking him in Voice ---But don't be afraid.
The darkness engulfs his legs Voice You hold the mightiest weapon of all.
He starts to swim away as the darkness clenches onto him. His grasping hand is lost to the black abyss Voice So don't forget...
The boy lies on his back as the darkness wraps its last threads around his frightened eyes Voice You are the one who will open the door.
On a bright sandy beach, the sun shines warmly on the same spiky-haired boy, who opens his sleepy eyes and sits up. He yawns, starting to lay back down again, when suddenly: a girls face ???? Whoa!
The boy jumps back up and turns around, kneeling in the sand. The girl giggles, hovering over him ???? Gimme a break, Kairi. Kairi Sora, you lazy bum. I knew that I'd find you snoozing down here. Sora No! This huge, black THING swallowed me up! I couldn't breathe! I couldn't--
She smacks him Sora Ow! Kairi Are you still dreaming? Sora It wasn't a dream! Or was it? I don't know.
He looks off toward the ocean, seeing the clouds billow in the sky Sora What was that place? So bizarre... Kairi Yeah, sure.
She walks past him toward the water Sora Say, Kairi, what was your hometown like? You know, where you grew up.
Kairi stares out into the sea Kairi I've told you before, I don't remember. Sora Nothing at all? Kairi Nothing. Sora You ever want to go back? Kairi (thinking) Hmm. Well, I'm happy here. Sora Really... Kairi But you know... I wouldn't mind going to see it. Sora I'd like to see it too. Along with any other worlds out there. I wanna see 'em all! Kairi (facing him) So what're we waiting for? ???? Hey!
They turn to see a silver-haired boy carrying a log Riku Aren't you guys forgetting about me? So, I guess I'm the only one working on the raft.
He tosses the log to Sora, who falls over with a yelp, and walks over to Kairi Riku And you're just as lazy as he is! Kairi (giggling) So you noticed. Okay, we'll finish it together.
She jumps up and down as Riku sits down next to Sora Kairi I'll race you! Sora Huh? Riku What, are you kidding? Kairi (giggling) Ready? Go!
Sora and Riku glance at each other before leaping up and racing across the beach. They smile at each other as Kairi follows them, still giggling. Later, Sora talks to Kairi Kairi So, can you gather the rest of the supplies? Sora, are you listening to me? Sora Yeah, I heard you. Kairi Okay, here's what you need to go find: Two Logs, One Cloth, One Rope. Bring everything back here. If you need help, just ask. I'm counting on you!
Sora runs along the beach and finds a log, along with Wakka Wakka Hey, what's happening man?
Sora defeats Wakka in a practice battle, before picking up the cloth in a small treehut. He sees Selphie sitting on the dock Selphie Ah, the breeze feels great!
Sora defeats Selphie in a practice battle Selphie Aww, I cant believe I lost!
Sora finds a coil of rope among the high boards where Tidus is practicing his fight swing Tidus Hey, Sora! You feelin' lucky today!
Sora defeats Tidus in a practice battle Tidus Man, Im really off today.
Sora heads through the Seaside Shack and across the bridge to the small island, where he finds Riku and another log. Sora battles Riku, but loses Sora Aww, man. Now the scores 0 to 1!
He brings back the stuff for Kairi, who's ecstatic Kairi Thanks, Sora! I found something today, too. Here, it's yours.
She hands him a Hi-Potion Kairi Tired? Want to call it a day? Sora Yeah, let's go home. Kairi Okay. It is getting late. We'll finish up tomorrow.
After the sun begins setting, Sora, Kairi, and Riku rest on the small island across the bridge and stare at the ocean. Sora and Kairi sit on the paopu tree as Riku leans against it, his arms folded Sora So, Kairi's home is out there somewhere, right?
Sora looks over at Riku. Kairi places her hands on her knees Riku Could be. We'll never know by staying here. Sora But how far could a raft take us? Riku Who knows? If we have to, we'll think of something else. Kairi So, suppose you get to another world. (giggle) What would you do there? Riku Well, I haven't really thought about it.
Sora rocks back and forth on the trunk of the tree Riku It's just... I've always wondered why we're here on this island. If there are any other worlds out there, why did we end up on this one? And suppose there are other worlds... Then ours is just a little piece of something much greater. So we could've just as easily ended up somewhere else, right? Sora (laying down on the tree) I don't know. Riku Exactly. That's why we need to go out there and find out. Just sitting here won't change a thing. It's the same old stuff. So let's go. Kairi You've been thinking a lot lately, haven't you? Riku Thanks to you. If you hadn't come here, I probably would've never thought of any of this. Kairi, thanks. Kairi You're welcome.
They start walking back to the dock. Kairi leads the way Riku Sora.
Sora turns around and catches a star-shaped fruit Riku You wanted one, didn't you? Sora A paopu fruit... Riku If two people share one, their destinies become intertwined. They'll remain a part of each other's lives no matter what.
Riku walks past Sora Riku C'mon, I know you want to try it. Sora What are you talking--
Riku laughs and Sora tosses the fruit away. They all run back to the dock and head for home. Meanwhile, in another world, Donald Duck the court wizard walks proudly through the Colonnade of Disney Castle, passing a group of brooms carrying buckets. Donald stops in front of two enormous double doors. He clears his throat and knocks on three times. A smaller door just his size opens and he walks through Donald Good morning, Your Majesty.
He walks down the long red carpet of the Audience Chamber toward a golden throne Donald It's nice to see you this morn--
He sees that the throne is empty Donald What!
Pluto walks out from behind the throne, carrying an envelope in his mouth. Donald opens it and reads the letter. He blinks for a second, then suddenly speeds back out into the Colonnade. He races across the courtyard to where Goofy, Captain of the Royal Knights, is sleeping Donald Wake up, Goofy, wake up! This is serious!!
Goofy continues to snore and Donalds temper gets the better of him. He points his finger into the air, yelling, and summons a lightning bolt, which swoops down and strikes Goofy in the side, jolting him awake. He sits up sleepily and looks around Goofy Hey there, Donald. G'morning. Donald We've got a problem, Goofy! But don't tell anyone... Goofy (ignoring Donald) Queen Minnie? Donald Not even the queen. Goofy Daisy? Donald (shaking his head furiously) No, it's top secret! Goofy (calling over Donald's shoulder) G'morning, ladies. Donald What?
Donald turns to see a cross Daisy, hands on her hips, and Queen Minnie. Daisy clears her throat and Donald laughs sheepishly. The next day, Sora returns to the island and visits the Cove. Riku stands there, waiting for him Riku Hey, Sora. Our raft still needs a name. Let's see... How about Highwind? What would you call it? Sora Me? Well...hm... Excalibur! Riku Hey, how about... Sora The usual? Riku Let's do it!
Kairi appears on the wooden bridge nearby Kairi You guys at it again? All right, I'll be the judge. The usual rules apply. Take any route you want... First one to tag that tree and make it back here wins.
A tree with a star-shaped crown stands on a large rock wall Sora If I win, I'm captain! And if you win... Riku I get to share the paopu with Kairi. Sora Huh? Riku Deal? The winner gets to share a paopu with Kairi. Sora Wha... Wait a minute... Kairi Okay! On my count:
Riku and Sora ready to race Kairi Three! Two! One! Go!
She slices through the air with her hand and both Sora and Riku race across the bridge. The two are neck and neck until one of the boards on the bridge collapses, sending Riku into the water. Sora takes this chance to run past the lookout tower and across the bridge. He runs up the hill towards the star tree, seeing Riku catching up to him, by jumping across the tops of the palm trees nearby. Sora quickly tags the tree and races back to the starting line. He throws a fist into the air in success Sora Now the scores 1 to 1! Riku Man, lighten up. Its just a name, after all.
Sora scowls and walks over to the makeshift raft on the other side of the Cove, where Kairi is standing Kairi (smiling) Today we collect provisions for our trip! Lets see. Sora, youre looking for... One Seagull Egg, Three Mushrooms, Two Coconuts, Three Fish, and fill this up with Drinking Water. But not from the ocean!
She hands him an empty bottle Kairi Bring everything back here. If you need help, just ask.
Sora finds a mushroom behind a rock and another amongst the bushes. He crosses a hole in the rocky wall, where water is trickling out and fills up the empty bottle. He returns to the Beach and finds Selphie on the dock again Selphie Hey, Sora. Have you heard about the legendary power of the paopu fruit? They say if you share it with someone you really care for, it binds you together forever and ever through eternity! It's so romantic. I gotta try it sometime.
Sora jumps into the water and catches three fish before swimming to the small island where Tidus is practicing Tidus I think you've gotten stronger, but odds are you're still no match for Riku. We took him on three-to-one last time, and he whipped us all. Well, I guess Kairi can always count on him.
Sora walks across the bridge and climbs a tree to retrieve a seagull egg and some coconuts. He enters the Seaside Shack and walks down the stairs to the beach floor. He walks along the beach and sees Wakka Wakka Me and Tidus, we are gonna do a little explorin' today. You know, to the secret place at the base of that tree. There's gotta be something there, ya?
Sora enters the Secret Place and walks through an underground tunnel, with roots lining the walls. He reaches a room made of walled boulders with chalk drawings scrawled on them. The only light is from a small hole in the ceiling. Sora sees the last mushroom near a wooden board in the wall and plucks it from the ground. Behind the mushroom is an old drawing of Kairi and Sora that brings memories flooding back to him. He kneels on the ground, placing a hand on the drawing of Kairi with a soft smile. His mind flashes back to the two of them as 5 year olds when they drew each other on the walls. Sora sits, picking up a rock and begins carving. He stops and stares at his work. He is giving Kairi a paopu fruit. Suddenly, he hears a noise behind him and stands up swiftly Sora Wh-whos there? ????? Ive come to see the door to this world. Sora Huh? ????? This world has been connected. Sora Wh-What are you talking about? ????? Tied to the darkness... Soon to be completely eclipsed. Sora Well, whoever you are, stop freaking me out like this. Huh?
He notices a hooded figure standing in the shadows. An X is emblazoned upon its chest Sora Wh-Where did you come from? ????? You do not yet know what lies beyond the door. Sora So, youre from another world! ????? There is so very much to learn. You understand so little. Sora (glaring) Oh, yeah? Well, youll see. Im gonna get out and learn whats out there! ????? A meaningless effort. One who knows nothing can understand nothing.
Sora looks toward the board in the wall. It resembles a door, but with no lock or doorknob. As Sora turns back to the figure in the shadows, it has disappeared. With nothing left to do, he returns to the raft, where Kairi is leaning against the mast fiddling with something jingling in her hands Kairi This? Im making a necklace of thalassa shells. In the old days, sailors always wore thalassa shells. They were supposed to ensure a safe voyage. See this?
She holds the unfinished star-shaped charm out to him Kairi Its a charm to help us find each other if we ever get separated. The three of us will always be together.
She places the Wayfinder in her pocket and he presents her with the collected provisions Kairi Thanks, Sora! I found something today, too. Here, its yours.
She hands him a Hi-Potion Kairi Tired? Want to call it a day? Sora Yeah, lets go home. Kairi Okay, tomorrows the big day. We should rest up!
Later during the sunset, Sora and Kairi sit at the edge of the dock Kairi You know, Riku has changed. Sora What do you mean? Kairi Well...
She grows silent Sora You okay? Kairi Sora, lets take the raft and gojust the two of us! Sora Huh? Kairi (giggling) Just kidding. Sora Whats gotten into you? Youre the one thats changed, Kairi. Kairi Maybe... You know, I was a little afraid at first, but now Im ready. No matter where I go or what I see, I know I can always come back here.
She turns to face him Kairi Right? Sora Yeah, of course! Kairi Thats good.
She pauses Kairi Sora, dont ever change. Sora Huh?
She stands up and takes a final look over the ocean. He stares up at her Kairi I just cant wait. Once we set sail, itll be great.
He follows her gaze as the sun sets. Meanwhile in the Library of Disney Castle, Donald reads the letter aloud to Daisy and Queen Minnie Donald, Sorry to rush off without sayin goodbye, but theres big trouble brewin. Not sure why, but the stars have been blinkin out, one by one. And that means disaster cant be far behind. I hate to leave you all but Ive gotta go check into it. Theres someone with a keythe key to our survival. So I need you and Goofy to find him, and stick with him. Got it? We need that key or were doomed! So go to Traverse Town and find Leon. Hell point you in the right direction.P.S. Would ya apologize to Minnie for me? Thanks, pal.
The letter is signed with the Kings seal. Pluto sleeps in his bed as the group muses over the Kings words Daisy Oh, dear! What could this mean? Minnie It means well just have to trust the king. Goofy Gawrsh, I sure hope hes all right. Donald Your Highness. Dont worry. Well find the king and this key. Minnie Thank you, both of you. Donald Daisy, can you take care of the Daisy Of course. You be careful, now, both of you. Minnie Oh, and to chronicle your travels, he will accompany you.
She points toward the desk. Donald peers closer, seeing a small bug jumping on the table ?????? Over here!
The cricket stops jumping once he has Donalds attention ?????? Crickets the name. Jiminy Cricket, at your service.
He bows with his top hat in his hand Minnie We hope for your safe return. Please help the king.
Donald stands at attention. Joining Minnie and Daisy, Goofy salutes him, before Donald yanks him out the door Donald Youre coming, too!
They walk down the stairs under the courtyard to the Gummi Ship Control Room. The mouse-eared lights on the wall are dim in the dark hallway. Donald walks ahead as Jiminy hangs on to Goofys helmet Goofy Gawrsh, Jiminy, your world disappeared, too? Jiminy It was terrible. We were scattered. And as far as I can see, Im the only one who made it to this castle. Donald (sternly) Goofy? Goofy Oh, right... I gotcha. Ya mean, while were in other worlds, we cant let on where were from. Weve gotta protect the world border. Donald Order. Goofy Right. World order.
He laughs and Donald gives a sigh. They come upon a crown-shaped doorway Goofy I guess well need new duds when we get there.
They enter the Gummi Ship Control Room, walking across the tiled floor. The whirring of machines fills the air as giant gears spin along the walls. Mechanical arms hang down from the ceiling around a small orange spaceship. The dome of the cockpit reveals three seats. Donald walks toward a large golden tube and puts a hand to his mouth Donald Hello up there? Donald Duck to launch crew! Anytime youre ready.
In a hanging control booth, Donalds voice echoes out of the other end of the tube into the ears of a black-nosed chipmunk wearing an apron. Chip salutes and a second chipmunk, this time with a red nose, runs toward a control panel. Dale jumps up to turn a blue lever. Steam billows out of pipes in the ceiling as more gears spin on the walls. Dale leaps to the window and the two chipmunks watch a mechanical hand move across the room. The hand picks up Goofy, carrying him upside down with his arms outstretched. Donald, at his annoyance of being lifted the same way, crosses his arms and frowns. As the cockpit opens, Pluto runs into the room and jumps into the Gummi Ship. A light spins on the wall as an interstellar runway opens, lights blinking along the path. A lift moves the rocket ship, aiming it at the tunnel, as Daisy and Queen Minnie enter the room to see their departure. Donald gives Daisy a thumbs-up and a wink as the rockets engines start up with a shower of flames. Donald points forward to the tunnel Donald Blast off!!
In the tunnel, a large neon arrow blinks on, pointing downward. The shaft below the Gummi Ship opens, and the ship falls through it, Donald and Goofy screaming. The ship drops out of the world and the engine bursts on, sending them into space. Meanwhile, Sora sits alone in his bedroom in the Destiny Islands. His window is open slightly, the only light coming from the moon outside and his dim desk lamp. Clothes and books are piled on the floor as he lies on the bed, peering over at a hanging model of a wooden ship with a boy and a girl passenger. Soras thoughts drift to his earlier conversation with Kairi on the dock Kairi I just cant wait. Once we set sail, itll be great.
Thunder rumbles softly outside, catching Soras attention and he gazes outside. In the darkness of the cloudy night sky, lightning flashes, striking near the small island Sora A storm?
He sits up suddenly Sora Oh, no, the raft!
Later, the wind blows through his open bedroom window, shifting the curtains as a voice enters his room Soras Mom Sora, dinners ready. Come on down. Sora?
The room is empty. Sora arrives at the small island, spotting a large orb of energy hanging low in the sky, wind swirling in it dark depths Sora Whats that?
Sora jumps onto the dock, seeing two other boats moored there Sora Rikus boat. And Kairis!
He looks around warily, seeing no one. In the dim landscape a pair of eyes emerges from the ground. The eyes illuminated the Shadows body, its antennae wriggling as it scans its surroundings. Another appeared and Sora gasps in fear. He takes out his wooden sword as one of them leaps at him, but he blocks the strike. He tries to hit them with the sword, but they seem unfazed by it. It feels to Sora as if it goes right through the creatures. Sora realizes his only option is to run and he makes his way to the wooden bridge, dodging strikes from the Shadows. Everywhere he runs, more appear in his wake. He sees Riku standing at the small island across the bridge, facing the orb in the sky. He appears unmoving, as if in a trance Sora Wheres Kairi? I thought she was with you! Riku The door has opened... Sora What? Riku (facing Sora) The door has opened, Sora! Now we can go to the outside world! Sora What are you talking about? Weve gotta find Kairi! Riku (abruptly) Kairis coming with us!
Sora looks shocked Riku Once we step through, we might not be able to come back. We may never see our parents again. Theres no turning back. But this may be our only chance. We cant let fear stop us! Im not afraid of the darkness!
He holds out a hand toward Sora Sora (uneasily) Riku...
A pool of darkness forms at Rikus feet, its tendrils licking at where he stands, wrapping around his impassive body. Sora rushes forward to save his friend, and the darkness grabs at him. He tries to reach toward Riku, but the weight of the darkness pulls him down. Rikus face is unchanging as Sora fails to grab his hand, the darkness proving too much for him. He blacks out for a second before a light twinkles into existence. It starts out small, but soon grows into an incredible brightness. It fills Soras vision and he feels something metallic fall into his hand. He opens his eyes, nearly stumbling forward as the light dissipates. He stares at the large object in his hand. Its golden handle and silver blade shines like a sword, but the tip of the blade is pointed like the teeth of a key. A keychain hangs from the pommel of the weapon. A name whispers softly in Soras ear Voice Keyblade... Keyblade...
Shadows appear around him and he swung at them with the Keyblade. A Shadow, unable to dodge, is knocked backward in a flurry of stars. With a few more swings, the darkness of the Shadows is driven away by the might of the blade, and they vanish. With as many as he defeats, more appear and Sora races back across the bridge. He sees a strange door over the entrance to the Secret Place. The door opens and he runs inside to find... Sora Kairi!
She stands heavily in front of the door-like wall of the cave. A soft hum hangs in the air as she slowly turns toward him, her empty eyes weak with exhaustion Kairi Sora...
Sora is startled to see her like this as she struggles to move forward to him, lifting a hand toward him. Suddenly, the door behind her gives way and a great wind billows forth. Sora stands his ground, covering his face as Kairi loses her grip, flying toward him. He opens his arms to catch her, but just as she reaches him, she vanishes and he catches nothing. Astonished by this, he loses his ground as the dark wind knocks him harshly out of the cave. He comes to on the beach with a grunt, the purple sky stretching around the island. Sora kneels in the sand looking around at the island below him. Large chunks of the island have broken off and risen into the sky towards the dark orb Sora Whoa!
The orb looms above him, lightning crackling in its dark depths as the wind swirls in the air with rocky and wooden debris. Sora senses a presence behind him, and stands, turning around to see the demon from his dreams, Darkside, gazing down at him through black tendrils. Sora takes out the Keyblade as Darkside kneels on the ground. Energy pulses in the heart-shaped hole in its torso and it releases beams that target Sora. Sora begins attacking its arm, while dodging the beams of energy. Darkside stands, its hands out of reach of Sora, and it pauses, peering at him through glowing yellow eyes. Sora waits, watching its every move. It leans forward clenching its hand into a fist, gathering strength, before slamming the fist into the ground, spewing darkness along the sandy floor. Shadows emerge from the dark pool. Sora races through them to the demons wrist, running along its black arm. He makes his way to Darksides shoulder and slams the blade into the creatures face. The wind howls louder as the island creeps further toward the orb of energy. Sora drops to the ground as Darkside is pulled into the air. The wind whipping at him, he grabs a wooden board stuck in the sand and holds on for dear life. Every muscle in his body tenses as the wind pulls him upward. His fingers slowly lose their grip and he is sucked into the orb, screaming. Meanwhile in a quiet village, Goofy, Donald, and Pluto walk through town. Something in the sky catches Goofys attention and he stops, gazing upward. Donald turns around as Goofy points upward. Donald follows his gaze and gasps Goofy Look, a stars goin out!
A bright star in the night sky twinkles and blinks out of existence. Donalds face turns serious Donald Come on. Lets hurry.
Goofy nods and they walk through the center of the main district toward a flight of steps. The neon letters of the various shops blink in the night air while a few townsfolk inhabit the picturesque town square. Pluto runs ahead of the two Donald Wheres that key... Goofy Hey, ya know, maybe we ought to go find Leon.
They reach the top of the steps in front of an accessory shop. Pluto sniffs around a dark alleyway, while Donald walks off to the right on his own course. Goofy notices Pluto and stops Goofy Uh, Donald. Ya know, I betcha that... Donald Aw, what do you know, you big palooka?
Donald continues walking Goofy What do I know? Hmm...
He ponders this for a second before following Donald Goofy (calling) Come on, Pluto.
Pluto continues his search down the alley, turning a corner at a pile of wooden crates. He comes across a sleeping Sora and licks his face. Soras eyes blink open slowly and he peers around sleepily, seeing the dog, who happily wags his tail at the sight of him Sora What a dream...
He starts nodding off again and Pluto pounces on him. He gives off a startled yell Sora This isnt a dream!
He squints at the dog, his eyes focusing for a moment, before standing up. He searches his surroundings. Several notices are pinned up on a wall nearby, but even in the dimness of the alleyway, what he sees is not familiar Sora Where am I?
He turns toward the brighter end of the alley Sora Oh, boy.
He bends down to address Pluto Sora Do you know where we are?
Pluto hears a voice calling him and runs back the way he came Sora Hey...
Sora follows the dog to the main part of town, where he can finally see in the brightness of the streetlights Sora This is totally weird... Im in another world!
Sora walks into the Accessory Shop. A blond man standing behind the counter turns to face him ??? Hey there, how can I... Aw, its only a kid. Sora Im not a kid! And the names Sora! ??? Okay, okay, simmer down. So why the long face, Sora? You lost or somethin? Sora No! Well, maybe. Where are we? ??? Huh?
Sora explains what happened to his world Sora Traverse Town... So, gramps, is this really another world? ??? Dont call me gramps! The names Cid!
He grits his teeth, nearly breaking the piece of straw in his mouth Cid Anyway... Not sure what youre talkin about, but this sure aint your island. Sora Hmm... Guess Id better start looking for Riku and Kairi. Cid Well, good luck with whatever it is youre doing. If you ever run into trouble, you come to me.
Sora leaves the shop and finds the entrance to the Second District. As he enters, a man stumbles out in front of him. A glowing heart bursts from his chest and floats over to an orb of darkness. They merge and form a creature similar to a Soldier, with a strange emblem on its chest. It moves awkwardly, doing a somersault in the air before disappearing. Sora rushes over to where the mans body once lay and a group of Shadows surrounds him Sora Its those creatures from the island!
Sora defeats the creatures and runs inside a nearby Hotel as Donald and Goofy enter the area Goofy (looking around) Doesnt look like hes here. Donald Keep looking!
After finding no one at the Hotel, Sora returns to town and enters the Gizmo Shop as Donald and Goofy walk out of the Hotel Donald Hmph. Where is he? Goofy (calling) Leeeooon!
Sora passes through the Gizmo Shop and finds a large ornate door. He enters as Donald and Goofy leave the Gizmo Shop Donald Not here, either. Goofy This could take a while...
Inside the house, Sora finds two adult Dalmatians, who look sad. Despite the many rooms of the house, they are all empty. Unable to help them, Sora leaves, passing through an alleyway back to the Second District. Finding nothing, he decides to return to the First District. As he enters the double doors, Donald and Goofy exit the Hotel again Donald (calling) Leeeon! Mister Leon? Goofy (calling) Where are you?
Sora battles his way back to the Accessory Shop Cid Still havent found em? Keep your chin up. Take another look around town.
Sora walks back into town ?????? Theyll come at you out of nowhere. Sora (whirling around) Who are you? ?????? And theyll keep on coming at you, as long as you continue to wield the Keyblade.
A tall man enters in a leather outfit, the lion necklace swinging against his chest. He raises a gloved hand and points at the Keyblade, his blue eyes gazing at Sora through his long dark hair. There is a large scar above his nose ?????? But why? Why would it choose a kid like you?
He places a hand to his forehead Sora Whats that supposed to mean? ?????? Never mind. Now, lets see that Keyblade.
He walks slowly towards Sora, his arm reaching out. Sora takes a defensive stance Sora What? Theres no way youre getting this! ?????? All right, then have it your way.
The man takes out a Gunblade, slinging it over his shoulder before holding it firmly in his strong hands. He summons a Fire spell and shoots it at Sora, who dodges and runs toward the man. He gets in a few hits with the Keyblade before taking a large hit from the Gunblade, knocking him backward. He runs further away, but the man leaps over and corners him. He leaps over the wall to the main square and the man shoots another Fire spell at him, which Sora blocks and sends flying back at the man. Sora stops for a second, hearing nothing and runs back over the wall to find the man stunned. As he gets closer, the man snaps back and strikes him hard in the chest. Sora stands for a second, wobbling on his feet, before falling over backward onto the cobblestone ground. The man stands back up, hearing a voice behind him ?????? Hey, you found it. Nice going, Leon.
He turns back to see a smiling young girl with dark hair Leon Still... It looks like things are worse than we thought. A lot worse.
He looks toward the Keyblade in Soras hands. Meanwhile in another world, Riku awakes on a cold stone platform. His fingers twitch and he opens his eyes, seeing a large waterfall and crystalline rock platforms floating in the air. The sounds of the Rising Falls fill his ears, and he slowly gets to his feet Riku Where...am I?
He looks around at the area. The waterfalls flow upwards rather than downwards, filling his vision on nearly every side. He sees no one else around Riku (calling) Sora! Kairi!
Getting no response, he stares at the tiled ground. Unbeknownst to him, his arrival is noticed by a tall figure in a black cloak, who walks toward him on a much higher platform. The figures greenish-gray hand and long violet fingernails are revealed. Back in Traverse Town, Donald and Goofy walk down the Alleyway in the Second District, having no luck in their search. The dim light complements the empty atmosphere Goofy Gawrsh, theres nobody here. Sure is spooky! Donald Aw, phooey. Im not scared.
He feels a tap on his shoulder and screams, leaping into the air and hanging onto Goofys back, shivering ?????? Excuse me. Did the king send you?
At the mention of the King, Donald stops shaking and the two of them turn to see a young woman with flowing brown hair tied in a bow. She wears a long pink dress and brown boots. She smiles at the two of them. Soon after, Sora is starting to wake up Kairi Come on, lazy bum. Wake up.
Sora shakes his head and opens his eyes. He looks up to see Kairi peering down at him on the bed Kairi You okay? Sora I guess... Kairi Those creatures that attacked you are after the Keyblade. But its your heart they really want, because you wield the Keyblade. Sora Im so glad that youre okay, Kairi. Kairi Kairi? Who are you talking about?
Kairis voice changes ?????? Im the great ninja Yuffie. Sora Huh?
Soras world flashes and the dark-haired girl from earlier appears in Kairis place, bending over him Yuffie I think you mightve overdone it, Squall.
The tall man from before walks into the green room Leon Thats Leon.
Sora sees the Keyblade leaning against the wall Sora The Keyblade... Yuffie Yeah, we had to get it away from you to shake off those creatures. It turns out thats how they were tracking you. Leon (crossing his arms) It was the only way to conceal your heart from them. But it wont work for long.
Sora sits on the bed, staring down at the floor Leon Still hard to believe that you of all people are the chosen one.
Leon picks up the Keyblade and swings it in the air. It flashes out of his hand and back into Soras. Leon walks over to him Leon Well, I suppose beggars cant be choosers. Sora Why dont you start making sense! Whats going on here?
At this point in time, Aerith has led Donald and Goofy to the adjacent red room Aerith Okay, you know there are many other worlds out there besides your castle and this town, right? Donald Yeah. Goofy But theyre supposed to be a secret.
He covers his mouth Aerith Theyve been secret because theyve never been connected. Until now.
Her thoughts drift to nearly a decade earlier Aerith When the Heartless came, everything changed. Sora The Heartless? Yuffie The ones who attacked you, you remember? Leon Those without hearts. Yuffie The darkness in peoples heartsthats what attracts them. Leon And there is darkness within every heart.
Yuffie looks toward Sora Yuffie Hey, have you heard of someone named Ansem? Goofy Ansem?
He places a hand to his chin Aerith He was studying the Heartless. He recorded all of his findings in a very detailed report.
Donald crosses his arms and taps his foot on the wood floor Goofy Gawrsh, uh, can we see it? Aerith (shaking her head) Its pages are scattered everywhere. Donald Scattered?
Donald stops tapping Aerith To many worlds. Goofy Oh, then maybe the king went to find em.
He slams a fist down into his hand and Donald nods Aerith Yes, those were my thoughts exactly. Goofy Weve gotta find him quick! Donald Wait!
He looks over, and pulls the screen down towards him Donald First, we need that key! Aerith Thats right. The Keyblade. Sora So...this is the key?
Sora holds up the Keyblade Yuffie (nodding) Exactly! Leon The Heartless have great fear of the Keyblade.
He walks over to the door Leon Thats why theyll keep coming after you no matter what. Sora Well, I didnt ask for this. Yuffie The Keyblade chooses its master. And it chose you. Leon So tough luck.
He leans against the door Sora How did all this happen? I remember being in my room...
He gasps sharply, standing up and looking to them frantically Sora Wait a minute! What happened to my home? My island? Riku! Kairi! Leon You know what? I really dont know.
Sora looks down sadly. Yuffie tries to change the subject Yuffie Hey, cheer up! Ive heard that the Keyblade can open all sorts of locks. Give it a try the next time you find a treasure chest or door lock! Leon Sooner or later, the Heartless will find you. Youd best prepare yourself. Sora Prepare myself? Leon To fight for your life. Are you ready? Sora Im ready! Leon Yuffie, lets go join Aerith. She should be there now with the other visitors.
Yuffie points to the other end of the room Yuffie Leon!
A Soldier Heartless appears, clattering awkwardly. Leon runs forward Leon Yuffie, go!
Yuffie runs into the Red Room, squashing Donald behind it with a squawk. Aeriths face turns serious Aerith Yuffie?
She runs after Yuffie as Leon takes out his Gunblade Leon Sora, lets go!
Leon slams the Heartless through the window of the room and it flies over the balcony and down to the Alleyway below. Leon runs after it, Sora following. The Red Room door closes and Goofy stares at Donald flattened against the wall. Down in the Alleyway, more Heartless have appeared around them Leon Dont bother with the small fry. Find the leader! Lets go!
Leon runs down the Alley toward the door to the main district. Sora fights Heartless as he makes his way to the Third District. Sora runs down the stairs into the square as Goofy watches from a high balcony. Goofy turns around as Heartless appear around him and Donald. He takes out his shield Goofy Gawrsh, are these the Heartless guys?
Donald swings his wand in front of him Donald Lets go get em, Goofy!
With a loud crash, the two of them are blasted off the balcony. Sora turns, hearing the commotion, and tries to run as Donald and Goofy fall on top of him. Stars appear around their heads before they see the Keyblade Donald & Goofy The key!
They smile as Sora winces. The District starts to rumble and they look around, still in a pile on the ground. Large blocks appear from the ground and cover the exits. Heartless surround them as they stand up, ready to fight. After defeating the horde of Soldiers, they hear a clattering sound from above. Sora looks up to see huge pieces of armor falling from the sky. They hit the ground and bounce into the air, spinning wildly. The arms of the Guard Armor form around the torso, which is emblazoned with a red and black symbol. Once the legs attach, the Heartless lands on the ground loudly. It stands there for a moment before the helmet slams down onto the torso with a bright flash. It spins its head and arms before walking toward the trio. Sora attacks its arms, but it hardly recoils in its pursuit of him. Donald and Goofy do their best to strike the tough armor. It begins spinning its arms wildly around its body. Donald is caught in the twister and is knocked out. Sora strikes at one of the arms and the Guard Armor stomps the ground in anger. It jumps into the air and its pieces clatter to the ground heavily. Sora strikes an arm off while Goofy heals Donald and they tag-team against its thunderous legs. With the appendages destroyed, the torso is left defenseless and it falls to the ground. Sora, Donald, and Goofy approach and it begins spinning out of control, knocking the three of them back. Once they find their footing again, Sora gives the armor a final strike and it starts to explode from the inside, shaking the area around it. Its head wobbles and falls to the ground with a mighty ring. A large glowing heart floats out of its torso into the air and the Guard Armor disappears. The District grows silent, the fountain depicting two dogs in love at the edge of the area giving off the only sound. Later, Leon and Yuffie join the group Sora So, you were looking for me? Donald & Goofy (nodding) Uh-huh! Leon (arms crossed) They, too, have been seeking the wielder of the Keyblade.
Yuffie nods Goofy Hey, why dont you come with us? We can go to other worlds on our vessel. Sora (facing downward) I wonder if I could find Riku and Kairi...
Leon closes his eyes, understanding what Sora is feeling Donald Of course.
Sora looks up at them Goofy (to Donald) Are you sure? Donald (to Goofy) Who knows? But we need him to come with us to help us find the king.
Leon steps forward Leon Sora, go with them. Especially if you want to find your friends. Sora (halfheartedly) Yeah, I guess. Donald But you cant come along looking like that. Understand?
He wags a finger Donald No frowning. No sad face. Okay? Goofy (interjecting) Yeah, ya gotta look funny, like us!
Donald pushes him away Donald This boat runs on happy faces. Sora Happy?
Donald and Goofy smile. Sora bends down and reveals a huge cheesy grin. Getting no response from them, he stops awkwardly. Donald and Goofy burst out laughing Goofy (pointing) Thats one funny face! Sora (standing up) Okay, why not? Ill go with you guys. Donald (holding out a hand) Donald Duck. Goofy (doing the same) Names Goofy. Sora (doing the same) Im Sora. Goofy All for one, one for all.
They place their hands together. Meanwhile, in a room full of darkness, a group with equally dark intentions gaze at an image of the trio on a round table ????? That little squirt took down that Heartless! Whod have thought it?
The fiery man looks over to a thin man with a staff, who replies ????? Such is the power of the Keyblade. The childs strength is not his own.
The large woman next to him gazes down cunningly at the image, water dripping off her many appendages ?????? Why dont we turn him into a Heartless?
She cackles loudly ?????? Thatll settle things quick enough.
A man standing next to her pipes up ???? And the brats friends are the kings lackeys. Swoggle me eyes, theyre all bilge rats by the look of them. ????? Youre no prize yourself.
A ghostly figure beside the man laughs loudly and the man brandishes a silver hook as his left hand ???? Shut up! ?????????? Enough.
The villains look over to a tall woman in a black cloak. She gazes through narrow eyes at the image on the table, her green skin echoing its pale light. Her long fingers curve around the staff in her hand ?????????? The Keyblade has chosen him. Will it be he who conquers the darkness? Or will the darkness swallow him? Either way, he could be quite useful.
She smiles darkly. Later, in the First District of Traverse Town, Sora talks to Leon, Yuffie, and Aerith Leon Make sure youre prepared for the journey ahead of you. We dont know how far the Heartless have spread. Yuffie Check out the shops here. Theyve got some pretty neat stuff! Aerith This is from all of us.
She hands him 500 munny Aerith Spend it as you see fit. And this is from Leon.
Leon looks away. She hands Sora an Elixir Yuffie Good luck! Aerith I hope you find your friends. Leon Look out for each other. Keep your spirits up.
Sora talks to Donald and Goofy Donald The gummi ship is outside that gate.
He looks toward the World Exit, a large gate at the edge of the area Sora The what? Donald Thats our ship. Goofy Wait til you see it! Donald Hold on. Sora, this is for you.
Donald gives him the Fire spell Donald Now you can use magic, too. Goofy, give him that other thing. Goofy What? Donald You know! Goofy Oh, yeah.
Goofy gives Sora the Dodge Roll ability Goofy Abilities allow you to do all sorts of things. Guess we should look for em along the way, huh? Sora Okay, is that it? Lets get going! Donald Not til were ready! Jiminy (to himself) Well, I see big adventures coming their way! Looks like its up to me to keep track of it all in my journal!
While gathering supplies around town, Sora talks to Leon, Yuffie and Aerith in the caf Leon There are Dalmatians named Pongo and Perdita living in the Second District... Sora Whats wrong? Leon Theyre quite upset, these Dalmatians. Theyve lost their puppies. Yuffie Squall cant stop worrying about them. Leon Call me Leon. Aerith Sora, would you look for the puppies? Leon Help them out. Aerith Please, find the puppies for him.
Leon says nothing Yuffie Squa--I mean, Leon--is really cute sometimes.
Once they are ready, Sora, Donald, and Goofy board the Gummi Ship Donald We travel to different worlds on the gummi ship. Goofy The Heartless ships often give us a hard time. Donald Always be on the lookout during flight. Goofy Your journey will be documented until you reach your destination. Donald Seek out the missions each world has to offer!
They travel to Wonderland and enter by way of Rabbit Hole. Slowly they drift downward, past clocks and tables and fireplaces, Goofy lying on his back enjoying the ride. When they reach the bottom, Sora and Donald land softly on their feet, while Goofy falls over with a big thump. They hear the quick pattering of feet as a white rabbit in a waistcoat carrying a large clock dashes past them White Rabbit Oh, my fur and whiskers! Im late, Im late, Im late!
He pants heavily White Rabbit Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear! Im here, I should be there.
They watch him scurry away White Rabbit Im late, Im late, Im late! The queen, shell have my head for sure!
They decide to follow him down the hall, where they reach a door, which reveals a smaller door underneath. They enter the Bizarre Room and see the White Rabbit scurrying across the tiled floor, several sizes smaller than before. The ticking sounds of a multitude of clocks lining the walls fills their ears as they watch the rabbit run through a small wooden door with a large doorknob on the edge of the room. Sora walks over to the door and kneels down in front of it Sora How did he get so small? Doorknob No, youre simply too big.
Donald jumps Donald It talks!
Sora looks at it in surprise and confusion. The doorknob yawns Doorknob Must you be so loud? You woke me up. Goofy (cheerfully) Good morning. Doorknob Good night! I need a bit more sleep.
It yawns again. Sora gets closer Sora Wait, what do we have to do to grow small? Doorknob Why dont you try the bottle...over there?
Sora turns and sees a table and chair form out of the floor. Two bottles appear on the table. The trio drink from the blue bottle and shrink down to the size of the door. Heartless appear and they defeat them, but by that time, the doorknob has gone back to sleep and the door will not open. They find another entrance to the Queens Castle. Several soldiers stand guard as a trial is in progress inside a large hedge maze. Several roses line the hedges, some red and some white. A procession of cards parts to allow the trio to enter as a small blond girl in a blue pinafore dress is standing at a defendants table. She looks up to the bench and is addressed by a large scary woman wearing a crown. The White Rabbit runs up a podium and catches his breath before sounding a note with a trumpet White Rabbit Court is now in session! Alice Im on trial? But why? White Rabbit Her Majesty, the Queen of Hearts, presiding!
The queen sits at the bench frowning in a red and black gown, holding a heart-shaped fan Queen of Hearts This girl is the culprit. Theres no doubt about it. And the reason is...because, I say so, thats why! Alice That is so unfair!
The queen taps her fan like a gavel Queen of Hearts Well, have you anything to say in your defense? Alice Of course! Ive done absolutely nothing wrong!
Alice folds her arms and the White Rabbit gasps Alice You may be queen, but Im afraid that doesnt give you the right to be so...so mean!
The queen scowls Queen of Hearts (yelling) Silence! You dare defy me?
She slams her fists on the bench Sora Hey, guys, we should help her out. Donald Yeah, but the-- Goofy Were outsiders, so wouldnt that be muddling? Donald Meddling! Goofy Oh, yeah. A-hyuck! And thats against the rules. Queen of Hearts The court finds the defendant...
She raises her fan Queen of Hearts Guilty as charged!
Alice looks astonished Queen of Hearts For the crimes of assault and attempted theft of my heart...
Sora gasps Queen of Hearts (yelling) Off with her head!
She points to the girl and the Card Soldiers gather around her Alice No! No! Oh, please! Sora (running in) Hold it right there!
Donald and Goofy run after him Queen of Hearts (angrily) Who are you? How dare you interfere with my court? Sora Excuse me. But we know who the real culprit is! Goofy Uh-huh. Its the Heartle
Goofy covers his mouth quickly and looks at Sora Sora Anyway, shes not the one youre looking for.
He points to Alice as the queen leans on the bench, tapping her finger Queen of Hearts Thats nonsense. Have you any proof?
She smirks at a speechless Sora and Alice is imprisoned in a cage next to the bench Queen of Hearts Bring me evidence of Alices innocence! Fail, and its off with all of your heads! Gather as much or little evidence as you please. Report back here once youre ready.
Sora talks to Alice while a Card Soldier stands guard Alice Who are you? Sora Im Sora. Goofy Im Goofy, and that theres Donald. Alice Pleased to meet you, though I do wish it were under better circumstances. Im sorry you got mixed up in this nonsense. Sora Why are you on trial in the first place? Alice I should like to know the very same thing! Apparently I was guilty from the moment I took the stand! Sora Thats crazy! So, where are you from? Alice Hmm, curious. I cant quite remember. You see, I found this mysterious rabbit hole. When I tried to peek inside, I tumbled in head over heels... And I found myself here. Sora So youre from another world! Goofy Thats funny. Maybe you dont need a ship, then. Donald I dont get it. Alice What do you mean another world? Card Soldier Enough! The defendant will be silent!
Sora, Donald, and Goofy enter the Lotus Forest and look around. A cats face appears out of thin air, except this cat was smiling widely. Its head bounces around the area, in and out of vision, until resting atop a large tree stump. The cats body appears, standing on its head rather comically. Its body is lined with purple stripes. It steps off and places its head back on its body, grinning incessantly Donald (yelling) Who are you? Cheshire Cat Who, indeed? Poor Alice. Soon to lose her head, and shes not guilty of a thing! Sora Hey, if you know who the culprit is, tell us! Cheshire Cat The Cheshire Cat has all the answersbut doesnt always tell. The answer, the culprit, the cat all lie in darkness.
The cat vanishes Sora Wait! Cheshire Cat Theyve already left the forest. I wont tell which exit. There are four pieces of evidence in all. Three are a cinch to find. The fourth is tricky. Big reward if you find them all. Donald Should we trust him?
The cat returns Cheshire Cat To trust, or not to trust? I trust youll decide!
He disappears. The trio defeats Heartless in the Lotus Forest before finding some Footprints near a large flower. After climbing to one of the tree tops, Sora finds a hole in the trunk of a tree. They enter it and find themselves in the Bizarre Room again, this time on top of the huge stone stove. Near the two burners, they find a Stench. They return to the Lotus Forest and travel further in, finding a large boulder and several Dalmatian puppies. They climb the boulder and reach a lily pad, where they discover an Antenna. As they travel along lily pads, they see a hole in a high corner of the woods. They make their way over and enter. They fall into the Bizarre Room, on top of a faucet sticking out of the wall. Jumping to a nearby wooden ledge, they find some Claw Marks. After saving this evidence, the Cheshire Cat appears on the faucet, still grinning Cheshire Cat Well, look what youve found. Nice going. Sora Now we can save Alice. Cheshire Cat Dont be so sure! She may be innocent, but what about you? Sora What do you mean? Cheshire Cat I wont tell. But Ill give you something.
The Cheshire Cat gives them the Blizzard spell and disappears. They return to the Queens Castle and speak to a Card Soldier Card Soldier Are you ready to present evidence before the queen? Sora Yes. Card Soldier Very well. Counsel, step up to the podium.
Sora stands at the defendants table, while Donald and Goofy are in a separate box Queen of Hearts Now, show me what you have found.
Sora presents their four items of evidence Queen of Hearts Well, thats certainly a lot of evidence, but Im still not impressed. Cards! Bring forth my evidence!
The cards present the queens box of evidence and the five boxes are shuffled around to Soras confusion Queen of Hearts Hmm, checking all five would only be a waste of time. All right, then. Choose the one you wish to present. Ill decide whos guilty based on that evidence. Sora What? After all the trouble of collecting it? Queen of Hearts (yelling) You dare object? Then you will lose your head! Now, choose! One box!
Sora chooses one of the boxes Queen of Hearts Are you certain? No second chances! Sora Im sure. Queen of Hearts Now we shall see who the real culprit is.
Inside the box is a Soldier Heartless Queen of Hearts What in the world was that? Sora Theres your evidence. Alice is innocent. Queen of Hearts Rrrrrrrgh... Silence! Im the law here!
She pounds on the bench Queen of Hearts Article 29: Anyone who defies the queen is guilty! Donald (jumping up and down) Thats crazy! Queen of Hearts (shouting) Seize them at once!
The podiums and hedges disappear and a large crank tower rises from the floor. The Ten of Spades runs over to the towers gear and turns it, raising Alices cage at the bench. The queen lifts her fan and the cards leap into battle Queen of Hearts Cards! If they touch the tower, you lose your heads!
They begin attacking the red and black Card Soldiers who come at them with axes. After knocking a couple out, they flutter to the ground unconscious Queen of Hearts Get them, you fools! Quit joking around!
Sora runs up to the Queen of Hearts, who tries to fight back with magic from her fan. Sora dodges this and knocks her over, exposing her heart- patterned bloomers. At this point, the Card Soldiers freeze on the spot for fear of their queen. Sora runs back over and starts slamming the Keyblade into the crank tower, with each strike lowering Alices cage Queen of Hearts (angrily) Why, you!
Eventually, the tower starts to crack and shatters to pieces. The flamingo head holding up Alices cage drops to the ground and the curtain pulls back. Sora runs forward as the Queen of Hearts peers over the bench to see an empty cage Donald She mustve gotten kidnapped while we were fighting. Queen of Hearts (slamming her fist) You fools!
The cards stand at attention Queen of Hearts Find the one whos behind this! I dont care how!
The Card Soldiers run in various directions at the queens orders. Sora talks to the Card Soldier in charge of Alices detainment Card Soldier I just looked away for a moment, and...
Sora, Donald, and Goofy walk back into the Lotus Forest and see a flower sneeze up a rock. It lands near the pond and the Cheshire Cat appears, standing on his front legs Sora Have you seen Alice? Cheshire Cat Alice, no. Shadows, yes! Goofy Where did they go? Cheshire Cat This way? That way? Does it matter? Left, right, up, down! All mixed up thanks to the shadows! Step deeper into the forest to the deserted garden. You might find shadows in the upside-down room!
The cat vanishes and Heartless appear again. Once they dispel the horde of creatures, they find a thirsty flower Flower Give me a potion and Ill make you bigger.
Sora obliged and grew until he could almost touch the treetops. He knocks the boulder into the pond and more lily pads rise out of it. He finds a large nut at the top of a tree and uses his Keyblade to knock it down. He eats it and returns to Donald and Goofys size. They travel to the back of the wood and find another entrance to the Bizarre Room. This time, they find themselves standing on the side of the room. More Heartless appear and in the shuffle, Sora knocks a teddy bear off a shelf and it falls horizontally onto the armchairs below. Sora lights one of the lamps in the room, which reveals a painting on the floor of a beach in both night and day. They enter the painting and return to the Lotus Forest. At the furthest part of the forest, they enter the Tea Party Garden, seeing a long table with several chairs. Teapots and dinnerware line the table as lanterns hang overhead. A painting of the Mad Hatter and the March Hare is hung at the edge of the table. The expressions on their faces is one of sadness. A sign is posted next to them reading A very merry unbirthday. Sit down to get your present. They sit at various chairs and the Hatter & Hares painted expressions change to ones of joy and happiness. The enter the door in the house nearby and find themselves standing on the ceiling of the Bizarre Room. The Cheshire Cat sits waiting for them Cheshire Cat Theyre hiding somewhere. And the momeraths outgrabe. Want to find the shadows? Try turning on the light.
The cat vanishes and Sora jumps onto one of the lamps and lights it. The cat reappears on the other lamp Cheshire Cat Its too dim. Make it brighter. Sora What next? Cheshire Cat One more lamp that you need to light.
The cat disappears and Sora lights the other lamp, summoning the cat once more Cheshire Cat All the lights are on. Youll see the shadows soon. Theyll arise in this room, but somewhere else. The shadows might go after that doorknob, too.
The cat leaves and they make their way back to the Queens Castle to enter the correct way into the Bizarre Room. Upon entering the room, they spot the Cheshire Cat on the table Cheshire Cat Youll have a better view from higher up.
Sora, Donald, and Goofy climb the table and the cat stands up Cheshire Cat The shadows should be here soon.
He taps his toes daintily on the table Cheshire Cat Are you prepared for the worst? If not, too bad!
He points upward and the enormous Trickmaster Heartless appears. It lands on the floor with its accordion-like hands and jumps over the table, landing on its large pointed boots. It stands up to its full height, towering over the table, unraveling both of its long arms. It stares down at them with its five stacked heads. It folds its arms together and pulls out two giant matches, twirling them in the air. Sora gets a running start, leaping off the table and striking at the Trickmasters faces as it raises its matches high in the air. It slams them down onto the chair, sending it flattened into the floor. Sora jumps up, using the length of his Keyblade to deal blows to the Trickmaster. He knocks it out for a second, and it falls to its knees, though not for long. It starts to sing to itself and swings wildly, hitting Donald, who shrieks. It continues twirling the matches, walking over to the stove. It bends over the stove and lights them, sending fireballs at the three of them. Goofy blocks them with his shield and Sora sends a Blizzard spell, effectively putting the fire out. After several more hits, the Trickmaster lowers its arms and falls to the ground. It attempts to stand, but crashes to the ground, its arms laying at its side. A large heart floats of its torso and it disappears. Sora hears a noise behind him and turns, seeing the doorknob yawning Doorknob What a racket. Hows a doorknob to get any sleep?
It yawns widely and they see a Keyhole inside its mouth. A light shines around Soras Keyblade and it reacts with a will of its own, pointing at the Keyhole and releasing a beam of white light. They hear a locking sound and the doorknob finishes yawning Donald What was that? Sora You hear that? Sounded like something closed.
A small green object falls to the ground in front of them, shining Goofy This gummi aint like the others. No, sir. Donald Okay, Ill hold on to it.
Donald picks up the gummi block and the Cheshire Cat appears on the table, peering down at them Cheshire Cat Splendid. Youre quite the hero. If youre looking for Alice, shes not here. Shes gone! Off with the shadows, into darkness.
The cat vanishes with his grin Sora No... Donald Lets go back to our gummi ship. We might find her in another world. Goofy We've gotta go to a save point to return to our ship.
Sora, Donald, and Goofy return to the gummi ship and travel to the Olympus Coliseum. They enter the Coliseum Gates, where two giant golden statues of gladiators clashing swords stand around the entrance. They walk across the grounds and enter the Coliseum. Walking into the dim lobby, the cracks in the stone visible underfoot, a satyr is putting up a sign on the wall near an entrance. A closed sign is tied in the dark doorway and a large pedestal is placed against a wall near a lit torch. Sora walks up to the busy-looking satyr Sora Um... ???? (without looking) Good timing. Give me a hand, will ya? Move that pedestal over there for me.
He points to the pedestal, still facing the sign on the wall ???? I gotta spruce this place up for the games.
Sora, Donald and Goofy walk over to the pedestal and attempt to move it, but it doesnt budge Sora It weighs a ton!
They talk to the satyr again Sora Its way too heavy! ???? What? Too heavy? Since when have you been such a little
He turns around, expecting to see someone much taller. He looks down at Sora Philoctetes Oh. Wrong guy. Whatre you doing here?
He hops down to their level and gaits toward Donald, who backs away Philoctetes This heres the world-famous Coliseumheroes only! And I got my hands full preparing for the games. So run along, pip-squeaks.
Sora pouts and the satyr puts his hands on his hips Philoctetes Look, its like this.
He paces around Philoctetes Heroes are coming from all over to fight ferocious monsters right here in the Coliseum. Donald (crossing his arms) Youve got heroes standing right in front of you.
Goofy places his hands on Soras shoulders, and Sora smiles Goofy Yup. Hes a real hero chosen by the Keyblade! Donald (pointing to himself) And were heroes, too. Philoctetes (shocked) Hero? That runt?
He laughs loudly, slapping his large belly Sora Whats so funny? Ive fought a bunch of monsters!
Sora pounds on his chest proudly Philoctetes Hey, if you cant even move this...
He attempts to push the pedestal forward, making no progress Philoctetes You cant call yourself...
He tries pushing with his back against it, his hooves slipping on the floor. Sora crosses his arms sternly Philoctetes A hero!
He wears himself out and sits on the ground, trying to catch his breath Philoctetes Okay, so it takes more than brawn.
He stands back up Philoctetes Well, well, lets see what you can do. This trial is tough. You got what it takes? You ready? Sora Im ready! Philoctetes Okay, kid. Lets see what youve got.
They enter the Coliseum, where several piles of barrels are set up around the arena Philoctetes The rules are simple: Bust all the barrels within the time limit. Ready? Go!
Sora takes out all the barrels with seconds to spare Philoctetes Not bad! For a beginner, that is.
Sora blasts through a harder course Philoctetes Hey, youre better than I thought!
They return to the Lobby Philoctetes You know, you aint bad, kid.
Sora scratches his head, chuckling Sora Looks like Im headed for the games.
Sora puts his hands behind his head, smiling Philoctetes Afraid not. Sora (surprised) Why not? Philoctetes Two words: You guys aint heroes.
Goofy counts on his fingers Sora Come on! Philoctetes Wanna become a real hero? Start by mastering this spell.
Phil gives them the Thunder spell and they walk outside, stopping when they hear a voice Hades Rather a stubborn old goat, wouldnt you say? Donald Who are you? Hades Whoa, hold on there, fuzz boy. Wait, let me guess. You want to enter the games, right?
He walks over to them, the blue flame dancing on his head. He stands behind Sora, placing his long-fingered hand on his shoulder Hades Well, then, hey, get a load of this.
A piece of papyrus appears in Hadess hand, much to Soras surprise Sora A pass? Hades Its all yours.
He starts to leave after giving him the Entry Pass Hades Good luck, kid. Im pulling for you, little shorty.
They run back inside and talk to Phil, giving him the Entry Pass Philoctetes Hey, howd you get this? Sora Can we enter the games now? Philoctetes Well... I guess so. We start with the preliminaries! Some real weirdos signed up for the games. Better watch yourself.
Sora, Donald, and Goofy fight through the starting matches of the preliminaries. Afterward, they talk to Phil in the Coliseum Philoctetes Youre no heroes yet, but you aint doing bad. Lucky you came to me for coaching.
Phil strokes his goatee as a soldier enters the arena. Sora stares at him and he stares back through spiky blond hair, his long red cape flying behind him, boots digging into the ground Philoctetes Something tells me hell be a tough one to beat. Who knows, maybe youll end up facing him.
The trio fights through more matches and speaks with Phil Philoctetes Say, youre better than I thought, kid! Wish he was here to see this. Sora Who? Philoctetes Hercules. Hes a hero if ever there was one. Too bad hes off visiting his father.
They fight through more of the preliminaries and celebrate while Hades watches from the barracks Hades That little punk is your next opponent, okay?
The blond soldier leans against the wall next to him Hades Now, dont blow it. Just take him out. Cloud The great god of the Underworld is afraid of a kid? Sorry, but my contract says Hades (snappy) I know! You think I dont know? I wrote the contract! I know it says youre only required to kill Hercules in this tournament. But youve gotta fight that kid to get to him. Come on.
He points to Sora, who is talking to Phil and scratching his head Hades Hey, its like that old goat says: Rule 11: Its all just a game, so let loose and have fun with it!
He punches the air Hades I mean, a casualty along the way is no big deal, right?
He smiles and Cloud stands up and walks away Hades Geez. Stiffer than the stiffs back home. Still, suckers like him are hard to come by...
In the darkness behind him, a large creature snarls. Sora, Donald, and Goofy finish the preliminaries and enter the final match against Cloud. Sora attacks with his Keyblade, while Goofy moves in with his shield. Cloud swings his giant sword and knocks them both back Cloud Thats the best you can do?
Sora slides forward and strikes, but he dodges backward and jumps into the air. Cloud slams his sword into the ground with unnatural strength, knocking out Donald. Giving a loud yell, Cloud surges forward and strikes, knocking Goofy out before he can heal Donald. Sora does his best against Cloud, but being a recruit of SOLDIER, his experience is unmatched, and he knocks the wind out of Sora. He walks over to a kneeling Sora, Donald and Goofy unconscious around them, and he peers down at the boy. Phil runs in with a white towel, but Hades stops him. Cloud raises his sword and Sora closes his eyes, bracing himself. Cloud lowers his sword to Soras surprise, and he hears footsteps behind him, turning just as a giant black claw crashes down on him. Sora looks up to see an enormous three-headed beast with red eyes growling over him. Darkness emanates from its jaws, each of its razor sharp teeth bared. Sora gasps as Hades retreats into the barracks Hades Oh, right, there was one other rule I forgot: Accidents happen.
The beast moves in to attack Sora, but is pushed back by an incredibly strong man Philoctetes Herc!
Hercules holds back the monster, shouting to Phil Hercules Phil, get them out of here!
The four of them race out of the Coliseum Philoctetes Whew, that was close! That was Cerberus, the guardian of the Underworld. Herc should be able to handle him. But then again, maybe not... This doesnt look good. I hope Hercs okay. Wish I could go in!
Sora starts to run back into the Coliseum Philoctetes Kid, youre not entering the arena, are ya? This aint just some match. This is for real! Sora Im not afraid. You can decide if Im hero material or not. Philoctetes Careful, kid!
Sora and company reenters the Coliseum arena, where Hercules has Cloud slung over his shoulder, Cerberuss giant jaws bearing down on him, inches away. The beasts ears perk up, hearing their entrance and they turn around, allowing Hercules to run Cloud to the Lobby, past Phil Philoctetes Kid, I got two words of advice for you: Attack!
Cerberus roars and stomps around the arena, sending large fireballs at Sora, Donald, and Goofy. Sora manages to stay out of the beasts path, Donald sending Thunder spells at its three heads. One of the fireballs heads Soras way, and he deflects it with his Keyblade, hitting the center head square in the eyes. The beast stops, roaring, and attempts to bite him as he attacks. Backing up, Cerberus rears up on its hind legs, and drops to the ground, sending a shockwave to the trio. Sora heals with a Potion as the beasts mouth foams with dark energy. It moves forward sending dark matter spewing out of its mouth and into the ground. Sora rolls to dodge as the energy pools and shoots up from under him. Goofy, finding a way on top of the beast, sends his shield flying at the multiple heads. Sora moves in as it tries to bite at Goofy and knocks out the beast, which falls to the ground loudly. Later, Hercules and Phil are addressing Sora, Donald, and Goofy in the Lobby. Phil reads from a piece of papyrus as Hercules stands with his arms crossed Philoctetes Thus, I do hereby dub thee junior heroes, and confer upon thee full rights and privileges to participate in the games. Further Donald Hey! What do you mean junior heroes? Philoctetes You rookies still dont understand what it takes to be a true hero. Goofy So, what does it take? Hercules Well, thats just something youll have to find out for yourselves. Just the way that I did.
He smiles Sora No problem. Well start by proving ourselves in the games.
Sora smiles, lifting a fist proudly Philoctetes There aint gonna be any games for a while.
He motions to the closed sign over the arena entrance Philoctetes Gotta clean up the mess from that last battle first. Sora Okay, well be back.
He waves, and the three of them leave as Hercules waves goodbye and Phil strokes his beard Philoctetes I still cant believe that squirt actually beat Cerberus. Hercules (to Phil) Just between us, Id already worn Cerberus down by the time the little guy jumped in.
The door closes Philoctetes My lips are sealed.
At the Coliseum Gates, Sora sees Cloud sitting near the exit and walks up to him Sora Hey, are you all right?
Cloud looks up to see him Cloud Yeah. Sora So why did you go along with him, anyway?
He leans his head pensively on his hands Cloud Im looking for someone. Hades promised to help. I tried to exploit the power of darkness, but it backfired.
He stands up and looks to the sky Cloud I fell into darkness, and I couldnt find the light. Sora Youll find it. Im searching, too.
He looks back at Sora Cloud For your light?
Sora nods and Cloud moves closer to him, placing something in his hand Cloud Dont lose sight of it.
He starts to walk away, and Sora nods and looks in his hand Sora How about a rematch sometime? Fair and square, no dark powers involved.
He moves toward Cloud, waving his hand in the air. Cloud turns his head, running a hand through his hair Cloud I think Ill pass.
Despite this answer, Sora smiles as Cloud leaves. With Sonic Blade in hand, Sora exits the Coliseum, the doors slamming behind them. Later that night, Hades stands in the Coliseum Gates, fuming. He holds a Hercules statue in his hand Hades Hes strong, hes kind.
The statue flexes his muscles Hades Hes always there for you, and hes handsome to boot.
The statue crosses his arms and winks Hades Hes perfect. Perfect. Perfectly infuriating! He makes me crazy.
Hades turns red, roasting the statue. The hair on his head blazing hot, he explodes in a burst of flames. As the smoke settles around him, he catches his breath and returns to his cool blue shade Hades Wait a minute. What are you worried about? All the pieces are in place. Relax. Heres what you do. Let Hercules train the kid. In the next games, Ill take care of them both.
He makes a fist as the horned witch appears behind him, her staff held firmly in her hands Hades Who invited you to the party? Stay out of this. This is my show. ?????????? As you wish. Fight to your hearts content.
Hades smirks, nodding, before noting the witchs tone, and scowling as she disappears. Sora pilots the Gummi Ship to the next world. They hover over the world and see that its a Deep Jungle Goofy Hey, Donald, maybe King Mickeys down there. Donald In a backwater place like that? No way! Lets move on. Sora Hold on. Riku and Kairi might be down there. Lets just check it out. Donald Forget it! Were on an important mission! Sora Just land! Donald No! Sora Come on!
Sora and Donald fight over the controls of the ship Donald Aw, phooey! Sora Were landing!
The ship starts to shake and decend Donald Dont touch that! Nooo!
The ship hurtles toward the world and Sora falls out of it into a large treehouse, crashing through the roof. He sits on the floor, rubbing his head Sora Oww...my head...
He looks around Sora Donald? Goofy?
Out of the rafters a claw appears. Sora looks up in time to see a leopard pouncing in his direction. Sora leaps up and blocks with his Keyblade. He jumps back as the leopard lands on the wooden floor and knocks Sora away. The leopard roars and tries to claw at him, but he slides away and strikes with his Keyblade, sending it flying across the room. After a tough struggle, it lies on the floor, tricking Sora into coming closer. Suddenly, it leaps up and roars as someone enters through a hole in the ceiling. He spins around the rafters and leaps to the floor. As the leopard pounces at Sora, the man blocks its bite with a spear. The leopard struggles wildly, its jaws clamped around the spear. The man knocks it back, glaring at it, and it snarls before leaping out a window, sending shards of glass flying everywhere. The wild man puts away his spear and addresses Sora. He has long brown dreadlocks and wears a loincloth over his toned body. He stands low, his knuckles touching the ground like an animal ?????? Sabor, danger. Sora Um...thank you. ?????? (slowly) Thank you. Sora Huh? Uh, what is this place?
The man moves closer to Sora, awkwardly invading his personal space ?????? This place, this place. Sora Okaaay... Where did the others go?
He gets no response from the wild man Sora Look, I got separated from my friends. Have you seen them?
The man looks confused Sora (miming) Friends... ?????? (mimicking) Friends! Sora Right, my friends! Theres two of em. The loud one is Dona
He stops, remembering the fight on the ship Sora You know what? Never mind. Im looking for my friends, Riku and Kairi. ?????? (slowly) Look for Riku, friends? Sora (nodding) Right!
In a beam of light shining in from the rafters behind the man, Sora sees an image of Kairi ?????? Kairi, friends? Sora Uhh...right...
He looks at the man, then back at Kairi, who walks away ?????? Friends here. Sora Really!?
The man speaks something in Mangani Sora Huh?
The man repeats ?????? Friends here. Sora Not sure I understand, but show me! Take me to Riku and Kairi! ?????? (pointing to himself) Tarzan. Tarzan go. Sora (pointing to himself) And Im...Sora. Tarzan go, Sora go go!
Tarzan opens the door and they leave the Tree House. Meanwhile, Donald and Goofy wake up on a mound in a Bamboo Thicket Goofy Gawrsh, where are we?
He looks to the sky Goofy I sure hope Soras okay. Donald (sitting up) Aw, who needs him? We can find the king without him.
He feels something soft on the edge of the mound while reaching for his magic wand Donald Huh?
He looks down and comes face to face with a young gorilla. They both scream and he and Goofy hear a rustling in the jungle. As the gorilla runs away, it leaves a gummi block behind. Donald looks over and sees it shining on the ground. The rustling continues and the two swallow hard in fear as a tall man carrying a rifle enters the thicket. Tarzan jumps from the balcony of the treehouse, crawling over the netting below, and leads Sora down the tree by sliding on its branches. They land at camp, where several tables with equipment are laid out near a group of tents. They enter an orange tent and see a woman fumbling with a projector Tarzan Jane!
She spins around to see him Jane Tarzan!
She sees Sora Jane Oh, and who is this? Sora Uh, hi there. Im
She bends down to talk to him Jane Oh, you speak English! So, then, obviously, youre not related to Tarzan...
Tarzan and Sora exchange glances Jane Are you here to study the gorillas? ??????? Highly doubtful.
They look over to see the tall man with the rifle enter the tent, with Donald and Goofy in tow Goofy Sora!
Sora rushes over and locks hands with Donald Sora Goofy! Donald!
Sora and Donald realize what theyre doing and part, crossing their arms to Goofys surprise. They scowl with their backs turned ??????? A circus of clowns. Not much use for hunting gorillas.
The tall man walks back outside Jane (frowning) Mr. Clayton, were studying them, not hunting them. This is research.
She sighs Jane Well, the more the merrier. Do make yourselves at home. Sora Well, anyway... Donald & Sora (grouchily) Im staying. Sora (surprised) Huh? Goofy Sora, look what we found. Look at this.
He holds out the red gummi block Sora Whats that? Goofy A gummi block. Its the same stuff used to build our ship. Sora So that means... Donald The king could be here. So, weve gotta work together to look for him. For now. Sora Fine. Ill let you tag along. For now.
Sora talks to Jane Jane Apparently Tarzan was raised in the jungle by the gorillas. Communicating with him still isnt easy, but hes learning. Sora So he was speaking in gorilla back there... Jane Ah, thats right. Youre looking for your friends? Sora He said Riku and Kairi are here. And one word I couldnt understand... Jane (showing them the projector) Why dont we try this? Well show Tarzan some slides and see if any of them match that word. Oh, what happened to the slides?
Sora and company search for the slides around the campsite. They talk to Clayton during their search Clayton Claytons the name. Im a hunter, not a researcher. What? No, I am not trying to hunt the gorillas. But theyre so rare! Id just like to get a look at them.
They return to the tent and give Jane the slides. The first shows a radiant castle, which stirs something within Sora Goofy Whats wrong, Sora? Sora What? Um...nothing. (thinking) This place... It just looks so familiar. But how? Ive never been off my island.
They show the rest of the slides to Tarzan Jane Well, Tarzan? Sora Where are my friends, Riku and Kairi?
Tarzan shakes his head Sora Hey, I thought Clayton (entering) That leaves just one place.
Sora looks up at him Clayton Young man, weve been in this jungle for some time now. But we have yet to encounter these friends of yours. Id wager theyre with the gorillas. But Tarzan refuses to take us to them. Jane Really, Mr. Clayton. Tarzan wouldnt hide Clayton Then take us there! Take us to the gorillas.
He walks up to Tarzan Clayton (miming) Go-ril-las.
Tarzan looks over at Sora and nods Jane Tarzan...are you sure? Tarzan Tarzan go see Kerchak. Jane Kerchak? Clayton He must be the leader. Perfect. Ill go along as an escort. After all, the jungle is a dangerous place.
He smiles and they leave the tent. Sabor attacks, but is sent scurrying back into the jungle. They enter the Hippos Lagoon and find more Dalmatian puppies. They find some climbable ivy and take it into a higher area of the trees. Tarzan finds Kerchak and Kala among the trees, numerous vines hanging around them. Kerchak looks sternly at Sora, Donald, and Goofy as Tarzan pleads his case to them in Mangani Tarzan Kerchak, please listen to me. I know the nesting ground is secret, but I trust them. You see, I want to help them because...because... well, they need us.
His blue eyes show deep concern for the strangers like him. Kala looks over to Kerchak, who continues to glower. Goofy leans over to Sora and Donald Goofy Uh... Did you get that? Donald No. Tarzan Kerchak.
Kerchak turns his head silently towards the treetops, sensing something. He starts to leave Tarzan (defeated) Kerchak...
Kala looks back at Tarzan sadly and follows Kerchak. Tarzan hangs his head Goofy (thinking) He seemed sorta distracted by something. Donald (thinking) Was he looking toward the tree house?
Inside the tree house, the young gorilla is playing with a globe. Claytons rifle glints in the sunlight as the unknowing gorilla continues playing. Donald runs to the tree house and screams just as Clayton fires. His aim off, the bullet narrowly misses Terkina, who runs away behind Kerchak. Sora enters with Goofy and Tarzan Donald Whats the big idea? Tarzan Wait, Kerchak. Please!
Kerchak walks away, scowling. Terk follows him as Donald glares at Clayton. Tarzan turns toward Clayton, frowning Clayton (miming nervously) You dont understand. I was only trying to... Ah. A snake slithered by, you see. I saved that poor gorillas life.
Tarzan lowers his head. The group returns to the tent and tells Jane everything Jane (angrily) How could you do such a thing! Clayton Now, Miss Porter, as I told you, I was not aiming at the gorilla. Jane (angrily) You are not to go near the gorillas again! Clayton All because of one mishap? Come, now...
Everyone glares at him and he drops his smirk. He laughs nervously and backs out of the tent. Turning away to leave, he grins cruelly. As he exits the tent, he takes out his rifle Clayton What am I doing with these imbeciles?
He stares out into the jungle Clayton Blasted gorillas! Ill hunt down every last one of them! Ill track them down somehow.
He takes out a pipe from his back pocket Clayton Ill stake my life on it.
He hears a rustling from the jungle and stops before the pipe reaches his mouth. He puts it away and listens for the source of the noise. He aims his rifle into the jungle as the noise gets closer, and the shot rings out loud and clear. Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Tarzan run outside and see a gorilla surrounded by monkey-like creatures Sora Heartless!
They notice Sora and attack the group as the gorilla hides. They defeat the Heartless and the gorilla thanks them with a gummi block. Sora speaks to Jane Jane Dont mind Mr. Clayton. Hes not a bad personjust a bit impetuous.
They search around the jungle, protecting the rest of the gorillas from the Heartless. They return to the tent Jane I do hope Mr. Clayton is safe...
They exit the tent and hear a gunshot from the direction of the Bamboo Thicket. They run into the thicket and find Claytons pipe on the mound in the center. A shadow leaps over them and Sabor lands, roaring at them, teeth bared. It claws the air towards Sora, but Donald sends a Fire spell at it. Sora strikes it with the Keyblade and it jumps into the tall stalks of bamboo. They wait for it to emerge, Tarzan listening keenly. It leaps out and Tarzan assaults it with his spear, spinning it wildly. Goofy tackles it with his shield and it tries to bite him. They continue attacking it until it slows down, its vision going blurry. Sabor looks up to the sun, falling unconscious, and collapses to the ground, losing a fang in the process. Meanwhile, Terk runs through the campsite past numerous Heartless and into the tent, frightening Jane and knocking her to the ground. Jane looks to see that the gorilla is alright before someone enters the tent. Jane looks up, terrified, and holds Terkina tightly. Sora and company return to camp to find the tent empty Sora Hey, wheres Jane? Goofy Whats wrong, Tarzan? Tarzan Something coming. Jane, danger. Jane near... Near tree house. Donald Sounds like trouble. Lets go.
They race to an area in the tree tops loaded with plant life. Jane and Terk are imprisoned in a web of vines Jane Tarzan!
A large black fruit is attached to the tree trunk in the middle of the area. They take out both the Heartless and the suspicious fruit, releasing Jane and Terk from their cage. Light flows into the canopy as they talk to Jane Jane Clayton came to the tent, and... Thats the last thing I remember. Sora (surprised) Clayton? Tarzan Gorillas trapped. Terk ran. Jane We must help the gorillas!
They run to the cliff area, where the gorillas have been rounded up by Clayton and the Heartless. Clayton loads and cocks his rifle, aiming it at Kala. Kerchak roars as Heartless pounce in his direction. Clayton puts his finger on the trigger as Sora runs in Sora No!
Clayton looks over to Sora and Kala and Kerchak walk away Sora Clayton? Tarzan Not Clayton!
He says something in Mangani again Tarzan Not Clayton!
Clayton gives out a yell and the fight begins. Donald, Goofy, and Tarzan go after the Heartless, while Sora takes on Clayton. The hunter fights back, aiming his rifle at them before the cliff behind them explodes. Tarzan rushes forward, but is knocked back by an invisible creature. It calls out and Clayton mounts it, reloading his rifle and aiming it at them again. Sora attacks the creature, causing it to shed its invisibility. The great green chameleon stares at them through wild spinning eyes. It sends out beams of energy before jumping up to a high ledge, and Donald calls down a Thunder spell, while Tarzan climbs the vines along the wall towards it. He stabs it with his spear and it reels backward, knocking Clayton from its back Clayton Lazy beast!
The Stealth Sneak Heartless fell to the ground as Clayton picks himself up. He aims at Sora, but is tackled by Goofys shield. Sora strikes the Heartless with a flurry of attacks while Donald casts magic spells. Tarzan faces Clayton and forces him towards the waterfall. He clutches his chest and aims his rifle at them, his eyes staring daggers. The Heartless rises up behind him slowly, sparks crackling around it, cause Clayton to turn around. It begins to fall on him and he screams. A glowing heart bursts from its chest and floats into the air as Clayton and the Heartless disappear. Kala and the other gorillas gather nearby as Kerchak walks up to Sora. He grabs him by the collar of his jacket and tosses him into the air. Sora lands with a thud on the top of the cliff. Donald and Goofy follow suit while Tarzan climbs to meet them. They look down towards the gorillas, who leave. Tarzan crawls over to the lake, where the waterfall roars Tarzan Tarzan, home.
They enter the deepest parts of the Waterfall Cavern and find a glowing nest of butterflies in the trunk of an ancient tree. Jane and Terk join them and Tarzan repeats the Mangani word Sora This is your home? But that means...
Tarzan stops him and places a hand to his ear Goofy Huh?
They hear the roaring sound of water Jane The waterfalls... Theyre echoing all the way here.
Tarzan repeats the word Tarzan Friends there. See friends. Jane Oh, now Ive got it. (recites Mangani word) means heart. Friends in our hearts... Tarzan Heart... Sora (disappointed) Oh, so thats what it meant. Tarzan Friends, same heart. Clayton, lose heart. No heart, no see friends. No heart, no friends. Sora (to Donald) Sorry about what I said. Donald Im sorry too. Goofy Yeah. All for one, huh?
He gathers them into a group hug, smiling. Sora walks up to the butterfly nest and they scatter around the cavern, revealing a Keyhole. Sora aims his Keyblade and seals the Keyhole. It glows with a bright light and a locking sound before a green gummi block falls to the ground, shining Donald A gummi! Goofy But its sure not thing kings.
Terk nuzzles against Donald, who looks surprised Jane I think someone has a new admirer.
Donald starts waving his arms frantically Donald No, no, no, no! Daisy would kill me!
Sora and Goofy laugh. Meanwhile, the horned witch stands in a dark chapel with three other villains ????? What drew the Heartless to that world? ?????????? The hunter lured them there. It was his lust for power that was the bait. But it seems the bait was too tasty for his own good.
A ghostly figure laughs ????? Yeah, he got chomped instead!
A tall, thin man in pointed robes walks out of the shadows, a snake staff in his hand ????? A weak-hearted fool like him stood no chance against the Heartless. But the boy is a problem. He found one of the Keyholes. ?????????? Fear not. It will take him ages to find the rest.
An image of Sora, Donald, and Goofy appears on the table before them ?????????? Besides, he remains blissfully unaware of our other plan. ?????? Yes, the princesses... ?????????? They are falling into our hands, one by one. Speaking of which...
Out of the shadows steps a frightened Alice. Back in Deep Jungle, everyone has returned to the tent Sora Well, guess wed better get going. Jane Where is your ship, anyway? Donald Well, uh... Not too far. Tarzan Sora, Tarzan, friends
He hands him a keychain and they return to the gummi ship Sora The gummi block that came out of that glowing hole... Its not like the others. Wonder what its used for. Donald I dunno. Goofy Maybe Leonll know. Donald Hmm... He might. Back to Traverse Town, then? Sora I wanna be pilot! Donald Hey, stop it! Sora Oh, come on! Im the Keyblade master. Donald I dont care who you are! No! Goofy Here we go again...
They travel back to Traverse Town and find Yuffie in the First District Yuffie Leons probably at the underground cavern. He trains there often. You know, the channel in the alleyway is connected to the cavern.
They enter the Alleyway though the Second District and find a grate at the edge of it. They tackle the bars and enter the Secret Waterway. They swim through the channel to where Leon is practicing his battle swing. Aerith is there with him Leon So, you found the Keyhole. Sora Yeah. The Keyblade locked it automatically. Aerith Good. Leon Every world among the stars has a Keyhole. And each one leads to the heart of that world. There must be one in this town as well. Sora What do you mean? Aerith It was in Ansems report. Leon (crossing his arms) The Heartless enter through the Keyhole and do something to the worlds core. Sora What happens to the world? Aerith In the end, it disappears. Sora, Donald & Goofy What! Leon Thats why your key is so important. Aerith Please lock the Keyholes. Youre the only one who can. Sora I dont know... Leon Seeing other worlds would probably serve you well. Donald Yeah! Goofy We gotta find your friends! And King Mickey! Sora I guess youre right... Okay!
He remembers the gummi block Sora Hey, Leon. This gummi blocks different from the others. Do you know what its for?
Leon has no answer Aerith Ask Cid. He should know. Leon Wait, Sora. Take this with you.
He gives him a stone Leon This stone holds some mysterious power. Ive been carrying it for luck. I want you to hold onto it. Sora How do you use it?
Leon crosses his arms, silently thinking Sora Uh, Leon?
They leave the Secret Waterway and return to the First District. They enter the Accessory Shop and speak to a Moogle Moogle A big tournament is being held somewhere, kupo.
They speak to Cid Cid Whatve you got there? Hey! Well, if it aint a gummi block. Donald Yup. Goofy Whats this one for? Cid Youre kiddin me! Youre flyin a gummi ship and you dont know nothin about navigation gummis? Bunch of pinheads. Interspace aint no playground. Sora Theres a lot we dont know. So what! We have to use the gummi ship to go to other worlds. We dont have a choice. Cid Whoa, easy.
He scratches his head Cid I didnt know. No hard feelings, all right? Well, I guess I could lend yall a hand, then. Sora Thanks. Cid Basically, with navigation gummis, you can go to new places. You want one on your ship, right?
They nod Cid Ill install it for you. But I got this thing I gotta go deliver first. Sora What do you need to deliver? Cid Just this book. Its real old. When the guy brought it in, it was practically falling apart. Too beat up to restore it to the way it was. But overall, I did a decent job puttin it back together. Anyway, you mind deliverin it for me? Its the old house past the Third District. Look for a big fire sign.
He hands Sora the old book before a loud bell rings Sora Wh-What was that? Cid Hmm? The bell at the gizmo shop is ringing. Go check it out if you want, but deliver that book for me first. When youre done, stop by the house in the Third District. Ill be there.
They leave the shop and enter the Third District, finding the fire sign at the end of an alley. Sora hits it with a Fire spell and the door unlocks. They enter a large cavern where a mystical house sits on a central island. Several stepping stones line the path in the water. Sora jumps on them and they begin to move rhythmically. Timing themselves, they traverse the stones and reach the house. The house looks beaten and worn down despite its festive purple hue. The front entrance way is covered in wooden boards and cloth. They find a broken hole in the side of the brick wall with a green curtain draped over it, and use it to get into the house. They enter an empty space with a raised platform in the center. Sora hears a voice behind him and whirls around Kairi Theres something about this musty place...
Kairi walks slowly through the room, holding her hands behind her back Kairi It reminds me of the secret place back home, where we used to scribble on the walls. Remember?
She looks toward him and smiles Sora Kairi? Goofy Sora?
He turns to see a concerned Donald and Goofy before looking back to Kairi, who has vanished completely ?????? Well, well.
They look over to the entrance curtain and see an old wizard in blue robes with an extremely long beard. He is carrying a carpet bag and a wand ?????? Youve arrived sooner than I expected. Sora Wha... You knew we were coming? ?????? Of course. Sora Are you...a Heartless? Donald He doesnt look like one. ?????? Oh, my. No. My name is Merlin. As you can see, I am a sorcerer. I spend much of my time traveling. Its good to be home. Your king has requested my help. Goofy King Mickey? Merlin Yes, indeed. Donald, Goofy. And who might you be, young man? Sora Im Sora. Merlin Ah. So, you have found the key. Donald What did the king ask you to do? Merlin Just a moment...
He walks up to the stairs and sets down his carpet bag before reaching the center of the raised platform. He lifts his wand high in the air Merlin Presto!
Dust flies around the carpet bag as it opens and out pops teapots, tables, drawers, and chairs, small at first, but quickly growing larger. The wacky wizard dances around while waving his wand, directing the items from the bag to their respective places in the house. Soon after, the room is entirely furnished, complete with bed, desk, and multiple piles of books Merlin There, now. Ahem.
He turns to face Sora Merlin Your king asked me to train you in the art of magic. We can start anytime you like. Let me know when youre ready to begin the training. Oh, and one more thing.
He turns to the entrance where a small model of a royal carriage is placed on the floor next to the telescope in the open window. Magic sparkles in the air coalesce at the carriages place and form an elderly woman in blue robes with a pink bow around her neck. She wears her hood over her white hair and holds up a long magic wand. She smiles at them sweetly ????? Hello. Im the Fairy Godmother. Your king asked me to help, too. I will assist throughout your journey. Merlin I do not know how much I can be of help, but do stop by anytime.
Sora hands him the book Merlin Oh, that book... So, Cid asked you to bring this. Thank you. You wish to know what kind of book it is? I dont even know, myself. In fact, its not mine. Somehow it found its way into my bag one day. It was such a curious book, I asked Cid to repair it for me. Well, I guess Ill put it here somewhere, for now. This book holds a great secret. The missing pages will unlock it.
He points to a small bedside table Merlin Ill leave the book over there. Do look at it whenever you like. My best regards to Cid for repairing it for me. Oh, and about that stone of yours... You should ask the Fairy Godmother about that.
They speak to the Fairy Godmother and show her Leons stone Sora Do you know what this is? Fairy Godmother Oh, the poor thing! He has turned into a summon gem. Sora A summon gem? Fairy Godmother This little creature lived in a world that was consumed by darkness. When a world vanishes, so do its inhabitants. But this one has such a strong heart, he became a gem instead of vanishing with his world. Sora Can he regain himself? Fairy Godmother Yes, but only his spirit. Now, watch!
She waves her wand Fairy Godmother Bibbidi-bobbidi-boo!
Sora is granted the power to summon Simba Fairy Godmother Whenever you call, he will help you. If you find any more of these, bring them to me. Dont worry, when their worlds are restored they will return there. Sora, please help save them. Sora Dont worry, I will.
Sora opens the old book on the nightstand and with a flash, he lands on its pages. A house of sticks appears on the map and he runs over to it, entering an empty meadow. He walks up to a large log, where a stuffed toy bear wearing a small red shirt is seated, tapping his forehead ???? Think, think. Think, think. Sora Hi there. Whats wrong? ???? Nothing. Just thinking. Sora Oh. ???? I was thinking of how to say goodbye to Pooh. Sora Pooh? Pooh (answering) Yes? Sora (sitting beside him) Wait a second. Youre Pooh? Pooh Yes, Im Winnie the Pooh. Pooh for short. Who are you? Sora Im Sora. Pooh Oh. Hello, Sora. Have you come to say goodbye to Pooh, too?
His face turns sad Sora Well, no. Why would I do that? Weve only just met. Pooh Because everyones gone away. Sora What do you mean? Pooh Well, we all lived here in the Hundred Acre Wood. And wed take walks together, or play Pooh sticks... And every day, Id eat some honey. Just one small smackeral would taste very good right now.
He rubs his tummy Pooh But now everyones gone. All my friends, and my favorite Hunny Tree too. Everyone mustve gone away while I was napping, I think... So, who knows?
He hops off the log Pooh Maybe I shall end up going away somewhere as well. But I wonder, how do I say goodbye to myself?
He puts his hands on his head Pooh Think, think, think.
Sora stares at him Pooh Oh, my tumbly is getting rather rumbly.
Sora watches him walk off. He follows the bear to a house built into a tree. Above the door of the house is hung an odd sign reading MR. SANDERZ with a backwards N. Next to it is a bell with a misspelled note reading Rnig also. Sora enters the house, seeing Pooh gazing inside a honey pot Pooh Oh, bother. Theres no more honey left. If only the Hunny Tree would visit... Then I could eat my fill.
He stands up and leaves the house. Sora follows, being greeted outside by an owl Owl Let me guess: Youd like to know what happens next. Unfortunately, some of the pages are missing, so I cant tell you yet. The pages are scattered over many worlds. Would you find them for us?
Sora exits the storybook and regroups with Donald and Goofy in Merlins Study Merlin Youd best go see Cid before going anywhere else.
They leave the Mystical House and return to the Third District. Soldier Heartless appear, but they are taken out by someone with a sharp-looking sword. Sora looks incredibly surprised to see... Riku There you are. Whats going on? Sora Riku!
He walks up to Riku and stretches his mouth out, making sure hes real Riku Hey, hey, cut it out. Sora Im not dreaming this time, right? Riku I hope not. Took forever to find you.
He runs a hand through his finger as Sora smiles Sora Riku!
Riku smiles back and they start walking through the square Sora Wait a second, wheres Kairi? Riku Isnt she with you?
Sora looks down, sadly Riku Well, dont worry. Im sure she made it off the island, too.
He looks to the sky Riku Were finally free. Hey, she might even be looking for us now.
A Shadow Heartless emerges from the ground, its antennae wriggling wildly. Riku is faced away from everyone Riku Well all be together again soon. Dont worry. Just leave everything to me. I know this
He hears a noise behind him, and turns to see Sora, who has just destroyed the Shadow Heartless. Sora stands and tosses the Keyblade over his shoulder Sora (proudly) Leave it to who? Riku (walking closer) Sora, what did you Sora Ive been looking for you and Kairi, too, with their help.
Donald and Goofy nod, but Riku looks apprehensive Riku Who are they? Donald Ahem. My name is Sora Weve visited so many places and worlds, looking for you. Riku Really? Well, what do you know? I never would have guessed.
Goofy puts his hands on Soras shoulders Goofy Oh, and guess what? Soras the Keyblade master. Donald Who wouldve thought it? Sora (stomping his foot) Whats that mean? Riku So, this is called a Keyblade?
Riku holds up Soras Keyblade Sora Huh?
He looks at his own hand in confusion Sora Hey, give it back.
He rushes forward to grab it, but Riku moves back and Sora stumbles and falls over. Riku holds the Keyblade above his head, getting a good look at it Riku Catch! Sora Whoa!
He tosses it to Sora, who stands up quickly Sora Okay, so youre coming with us, right? Weve got this awesome rocket. Wait til you see it! Donald (rudely) No, he cant come! Sora (stomping his foot again) What? Donald Forget it! Sora Oh, come on! Hes my friend! Donald I dont care!
The argument catches Goofys attention, but when he looks back at Riku, he sees no one Goofy Huh? Hes gone.
Sora looks around the District, seeing nobody Sora Riku?
He walks slowly Sora Nice going. Oh, well. At least, hes okay.
He puts his hands behind his head, hopeful Sora And who knows? Maybe well run into Kairi soon, too.
They walk up the stairs to the Small House, seeing the lights on in the window and enter to find Cid, Leon, Yuffie, and Aerith inside. Boxes are stacked up against the wall and a lantern hangs from the ceiling Cid You guys ever hear of Maleficent?
Sora shakes his head as Leon leans against the wall Cid I hear shes in town. Sora Who is she? Cid A witch, man, shes a witch! Leon Shes the reason this town is full of Heartless. Dont take her lightly. Aerith Shes been using the Heartless for years. Leon We lost our world, thanks to her. Cid One day, a swarm of Heartless took over our world! Leon That was nine years ago. Cid I got out of that mess and came here with these guys. Donald Thats awful! Leon Our ruler was a wise man named Ansem. He dedicated his life to studying the Heartless. Cid His report should tell us how to get rid of the Heartless. Sora Wheres this report? Leon We dont know. It got scattered when our world was destroyed. Cid Im sure Maleficents got most of the pages.
Outside, Maleficent stands with Riku, gazing at them through the windows of the house Maleficent You see? Its just as I told you. While you toiled away trying to find your dear friend, he quite simply replaced you with some new companions. Evidently, now he values them far more than he does you.
She looks down at Riku as he stares with narrow, unblinking eyes Maleficent Youre better off without that wretched boy.
She bends down to his level, giving him a smile Maleficent Now, think no more of him and come with me. Ill help you find what youre searching for...
In the Small House, they carry on their conversation Cid So, you delivered that book? That navigation gummis installed and ready to go. You find another one, you bring it to me. I threw in a warp gummi for the heck of it. Now you can jump to worlds youve been to before. Well, better get back to my real job. Whats my real job? Youll see. See me at the First District. Aerith Ive been thinking about the bell in the Second District. Sora That one that rang a bit ago? Yuffie The one above the gizmo shop. Theres a legend about it, you know. Aerith But its all boarded up. Nobody can get in there. Cid Heck, go check it out. Ring it three times to see if anything happens.
They leave and enter the Second District, battling Heartless on their way to the roof of the Gizmo Shop. They take down the wooden boards of the bell tower and Sora rings the bell
The mural in the fountain in the square below changes and the empty fountain fills with flames. Sora rings it again and the mural changes once more, the fire dissipating and the lights above the fountain blink on. When the bell tolls the third time, the lights shut off and water spurts out of the fountain, the mural changing finally to butterflies surrounding a flower, which then reveals a large Keyhole. They jump down to the square and approach the fountain when the Guard Armor drops from the sky. Sora begins attacking the torso of the Heartless while Donald and Goofy go after its legs. It spins its arms wildly and with a few more hits, it crashes to the ground, motionless. The trio pauses, watching as the armor twitches. It reforms its body and falls forward, its arms digging into the ground. Its torso and legs flip over, and the toes of its hammer- like feet curve inwards, forming hands. Its helmet opens and its yellow eyes stare blankly at them. It lunges forward and meets the blade in Soras hands. The Opposite Armor continues to tackle them, floating in midair. The Heartless soon splits itself in half, the helmet and arms going after Sora, and the feet and torso find their targets in Donald and Goofy. Donald summons a Thunder spell, sending bolts of electricity into the armor. The helmet swirls around between the arms, almost taunting them, before its body reforms. It moves to tackle them again, but mid-tackle, Sora strikes, knocking its parts everywhere. Nearly defenseless, they destroy its appendages, leaving just the torso and helmet. It turns its torso sideways, staring at them with its glowing eyes. A ball of energy shoots out from inside it, and it targets Sora, who dodges away. Another ball of energy shoots out, and this time Sora is ready for it. He blocks with his Keyblade, sending the orb back to the Opposite Armor, which begins to shake violently. The helmet falls inside its torso and a large glowing heart floats out into the sky, before the armor disappears. Sora walks over to the shining Keyhole, and locks it. The Keyhole shimmers and breaks off, disintegrating into pieces, leaving only the butterfly mural and a gummi block. Sora, Donald, and Goofy return to the First District and meet Cid behind the Accessory Shop Cid Hey, now that was quick! Now you know. Im in the gummi block business. Workin on your gummi ship sure was great. Come again and Ill give you a big discount.
He gives them a gummi block Cid Go ahead, take it. Its a special giveaway.
They show him the gummi block they found at the Keyhole Cid Hey, got another navigation gummi there, eh? Ill bet you want it installed. Sora Yeah, please. Cid Hmm... Looks like this is another one of those blocks that come in sets. You gotta find the mate to this one.
He returns the gummi block to them and they enter the Accessory Shop, seeing a small boy on the floor near the counter. Jiminy Cricket jumps onto Soras shoulder Jiminy Well, well, as I live and breathe! If it isnt Pinocchio!
The cricket hops down to the boy and Sora is surprised to see that he is entirely made of wood Pinocchio (looking up) Oh. Hi, Jiminy. Jiminy What in the world are you doing down here? Pinocchio (thinking) Um... Playing hide-and-seek.
Jiminy starts pacing around Jiminy I just dont believe it. And here I was, up all night, just worried sick about you. Why of all the
He looks up at Pinocchio, shocked Jiminy Pinocchio!
Pinocchio stares at his nose, which has magically grown longer Jiminy (sternly) Pinocchio! Are you telling me the truth? Pinocchio Yes! Jiminy Then tell me, what is this?
He points to an item on the floor beside them Pinocchio It was a present. Jiminy No fibbing, now! You know youre not supposed to tell lies. A lie only grows and grows, til you get caught! Plain as the nose on your face! Pinocchio But if you want something, why wait? Why not just take it? Jiminy Oh, my! Who told you that? You need some advice from your conscience! Pinocchio Thats right! Youre my conscience, Jiminy! Ill never tell lies as long as youre around.
Magic surrounds Pinocchios nose and it shrinks to its normal size Jiminy You need to be good so you can become a real boy. You promised Geppetto you would be, right? Pinocchio Oh! Do you know where Father is? Jiminy Hes not with you? Pinocchio Jiminy, lets go find Father! Jiminy Now, hold on! There are all sorts of dangers and temptations out there! Ill go find Geppetto, so you just wait here. These fellows here will be helping me. Sora We will?
Pinocchio stands up Jiminy Well, shall we go, Sora? Sora You couldve asked us first...
They leave Traverse Town and travel to Olympus Coliseum, where they compete in the Phil Cup. After making their way up the tournament, they speak to Phil and Hercules Philoctetes I never thought youd do it. Not bad. Hercules Phil, youre just as stubborn as ever. Dont pretend youre not happy for them! Philoctetes Ahem! Now, kid, youve still got a long way to go. The next rounds startin soon. Next time itll be the real thing.
They leave for the world of Agrabah, where a tall, thin man in robes walks through the streets with Maleficent Maleficent And the Keyhole? ????? The Heartless are searching for it now. Im certain well find it soon enough. So that just leaves...
Overhead, a brightly-colored parrot squawks through the air loudly before circling down to land on the mans pointed shoulders Iago Jafar! Ive looked everywhere for Jasmine. Shes disappeared like magic! Jafar The girl is more trouble than shes worth. Maleficent You said you had things under control. Jafar Agrabah is full of holes for rats to hide in. But why worry about Princess Jasmine? With her or without her, surely this world will be ours when we find the Keyhole. Maleficent We need all seven princesses of heart to open the final door. Any fewer is useless. Jafar Well, if the princess is that important, well find her.
Bandit Heartless appear behind him, brandishing swords Jafar Find Jasmine and bring her to me at once.
The Heartless follow Iago through the streets Maleficent Dont steep yourself in darkness too long. The Heartless consume the careless.
Jafar laughs proudly Jafar Your concern is touching, but hardly necessary.
Behind Maleficent in a watermelon stand, a worried young woman overhears their conversation. She is no commoner, as her jewelry and her clothes are obviously expensive. Sora, Donald, and Goofy arrive in the Plaza to find Heartless roaming the streets of Agrabah. They take out the Heartless as they make their way into an Alley. Sora gasps, when he sees someone staring at them from behind a pile of crates ??????? Whos there? Hello?
The girl comes out of hiding and speaks to them ??????? Im Jasmine. My father is the sultan of Agrabah. Goofy Uh... So that makes you a princess. Jasmine But he has been deposed by Jafar, who now controls the city. Goofy Jafar? Jasmine You havent heard of him? Hes the royal vizier. Hes gained evil powers and seized Agrabah. Hes desperately looking for something something he calls the Keyhole. Jafar caught me trying to escape, but he helped me. Sora Who helped you? Jasmine We were hiding nearby, but he left a while ago to take care of something... Oh, I hope Aladdins all right. Jafar Aladdin? Where might I find this street rat?
They look up to see Jafar on a high ledge Jafar Jasmine, allow me to find you more suitable company, my dear princess. These little rats wont do, you see. Sora Jasmine, run!
Jasmine runs into the city and the three reveal their weapons Jafar Ah, the boy who holds the key.
Jafar summons Heartless, who drop down and attack them as Jafar escapes. They defeat the Heartless and walk through Main Street, finding an entrance to a loft. Inside the loft, they find an ornate rug trying to pull itself out from under a chest of drawers. They move it off of the rug, who stands in front of them on two tassels and bows in gratitude, before magically flying out the open hole in the wall Donald The carpet flew off toward the desert. Lets follow it, Sora!
They make their way to the vast desert, sand and sky as far as the eye can see. The magic carpet flies towards them and lands. It motions for them to come along, and they ride it to a sandpit, where a young man and his pet monkey are trapped in the sand. A horde of Heartless appears and they are forced to fight them before reaching the young man. More Heartless surround them Goofy Gawrsh, not again!
The man manages to get himself free, pulling out a rather old and dirty oil lamp Aladdin Genie, get rid of these guys!
He rubs the lamp and holds it into the air. Magic sparks appear from the lamp followed by blue smoke, and a large genie erupts from it with a yell Genie Wish Number One, coming right up!
He snaps his fingers and the Heartless vanish around them. Later, they stand in the desert as the magic carpet flies overhead Aladdin I see... Thanks, Sora. Sora Aladdin, whatre you doing out here? Aladdin Same old stuff. Hunting legendary treasure. Just paid a visit to the Cave of Wonders.
The carpet lands Aladdin I found that magic carpet, and this lamp.
He shows them the lamp Aladdin Legend has it that whoever holds the lamp can summon the Genie Please, kid, leave the intros to a professional. (winking) The one and only GENIE OF THE LAMP!
He rubs the lamp Genie Rub-a-dub-dub the lamp and have your dearest wishes granted.
He bows and flies over to Aladdin Genie Todays winner is...Aladdin! Congratulations!
Genie makes confetti rain down on him and shakes his hand Donald Any wish? Genie Patience, my fine feathered friend.
He splits into three genies, each holding up three fingers Genie Any three wishes ! A one wish (one genie disappears), a two wish (two disappear), a three wish. Then I make like a banana and split!
The third disappears Genie Our lucky winner made his first wish
He reappears next to Sora Genie (aside) And let me tell you, what a doozy that wish was
He split into two back-to-back genies Genie (echoing) So he has two left.
He pops out and zooms back in, turning his smoky tail into a microphone Genie So, master, whatll you have for Wish Number Two?
He spins and drops a spotlight on Aladdin, who puts a hand on his chin Aladdin Hmm, how about making me a fabulously wealthy prince? Genie Oooh! Money! Royalty! Fame!
He pinches the air and bows Genie Okay, you asked for it! A hundred servants and a hundred camels loaded with gold!
He starts dialing on an imaginary phone, holding his hand up to his ear Genie Just say the word and Ill deliver it in 30 minutes or less, or your meals free.
He flies over to Aladdin, putting an arm around his shoulder Genie Hey, Ill even throw in a cappuccino! Aladdin (chuckling) No, thanks! Genie Okay. Aladdin I think Ill put that on hold until we reach Agrabah. Goofy Uh, why a prince? Aladdin You see, theres this girl in Agrabah named Jasmine. But shes a princess, and Im... Aww, she could never fall for a guy like me.
He looks toward the sand Donald Oh. Princess? Goofy Jasmine? Sora Oh, thats right! Shes in trouble, Aladdin! Aladdin What? Well, cmon, lets get going!
They board the magic carpet, and start flying back to Agrabah. Genie flies alongside them Genie Ah, fresh air! The great outdoors! Sora I guess you dont get out much, huh? Genie Comes with the job. Phenomenal cosmic powers. Itty-bitty living space. Its always three wishes, then back to my portable prison. Im lucky to see the light of day every century or two... Aladdin Say, Genie, what if I use my last wish to free you from the lamp? What do you think? Genie (smiling) Youd do that? Aladdin Genie, its a promise. After we help Jasmine.
They fly to the city and enter Aladdins House Aladdin So, Jafar is after Jasmine and this Keyhole. Genie Keyhole, eh? I could swear Ive heard about that somewhere before... Donald Really? Where? Genie Now, where was it? Its only been 200 years... Sora Well, anyway, weve got to stop Jafar before its too late.
They enter the Palace Gates by way of a high ledge and see Jafar standing at the gates with Princess Jasmine. They jump down to their level, alerting the vizier to their presence Jafar Setting your sights a little high, arent you boy? Back to your hole, street rat. I will not allow you to trouble the princess any more. Aladdin (shouting) Jasmine! Jasmine Im so sorry, Aladdin.
Jafar holds out an arm to block her, while Aladdin pulls out the lamp behind his back Aladdin (rubbing the lamp) Genie, help Jasmine, please!
Jafar turns and his eyes grow wide, seeing Genie carrying Jasmine Genie (cheerfully) One wish left! Youre making this really easy, you know. Jafar (smirking) So sorry, boy. Im afraid your second wish has been denied.
Iago flies over to Jafar with the lamp. Aladdin looks at his hand, seeing it empty, and knocks the cap off his head in shock. Iago gives Jafar the lamp Genie Im sorry, Al.
He disappears and Jasmine falls through the air with a scream, landing in a clay pot which suddenly grows legs Jafar And now, I bid you all farewell. Attack!
Jafar disappears as two pots explode behind them, revealing the front and back of a Heartless. Sora attacks the front head, and its antennae light up with a burst of electricity. It swings them around wildly, striking Sora in the face. He reels back as Aladdin searches around for Jasmine, who is desperately calling out for help among the clay pots. Several of the numerous pots have grown legs and are walking around the area towards the large Heartless. Sora watches as the Pot Spiders join with the head and tail, becoming a Pot Centipede, which begins to walk toward the desert, gathering more Pot Spiders and growing bigger. Jasmines cries become fainter and they run after the Pot Centipede, searching for the princess within its body. As it races away from them, its tail bursts with darkness Sora Courage!
He holds a hand to his heart, summoning with all his might. He gathers energy on the end of his Keyblade and thrusts it into the air, magic swirling around him. Up from the ground comes a large figure with glowing eyes. It steps forward and its golden fur and large mane come into view. The lion gives off a mighty roar, which fills the air. Simba jumps toward the Pot Centipede and bellows, sending various Pot Spiders shattering. When one pot is left, the Centipede gathers it up and starts to run faster. Aladdin races after it and with Soras help, the Pot Centipede is defeated. Aladdin runs at it, but it disappears, leaving nothing Aladdin Jasmine!
They hear an evil laugh emanating from the desert Aladdin To the desert! Come on, lets move!
They take the Magic Carpet to the Desert. Suddenly, something bursts out of the sand, spinning violently toward them. It lands two giant feet on the ground, clawing at carpet, who dodges frantically as Sora grits his teeth. The four of them topple out of the carpet as Kurt Zisa turns its six-armed body in their direction, summoning two orbs of energy in its hands. The orb cancel their magic summoning abilities and Sora moves in to attack its feet. As it walks closer to them, the mechanical crunch echoing through the desert, it stares at them with its snake-like head. Two of its other arms hold long curved scythes, which is spins wildly, slicing at them. Sora and Aladdin eliminate the magic-cancelling orbs and Donald sends a Thunder spell, sending it falling to the ground. Its head rears up out of its body on a long elastic neck, attempting to bite them, before it jumps back up, summoning large dust devils, tossing sand everywhere. Goofy charges it with his shield, but misses as it spins through the air toward Sora. Donald heals him as it sends fireballs toward them. With several more critical strikes, Kurt Zisa stumbles forward. They run away from it as its arms crash down in the sand around them. Aladdin summons the Magic Carpet and it swoops down to grab them as the Heartless falls over completely. A large glowing heart rises up into the sky as they fly away towards the end of the desert, watching as the Heartless vanishes in the distance. They reach the sandpit where they found Aladdin earlier and dismount from the carpet. They step forward and the sand in front of them lurches upward. The ground quakes as an enormous tiger head heaves out of the sand. Its mouth opens, heat and flame emanating from its depths, and its eyes glow. An evil glow, one of dark purpose. They approach its mouth before it reels upward, blasting them with a hot torrent of sand. Heartless appear and they realize the tiger head is under their control. Sora begins thrashing at the Heartless before a beam of energy strikes Aladdin in the back, knocking him over. Donald heals him and Sora sees that the beams are coming from its eyes. After he destroys a few Heartless, the tiger head buries its mouth in the sand, and Sora jumps onto its nose, because it releases a spray of sand from its mouth. Sora attacks its eyes before a Bandit Heartless flips onto the top of the tiger, almost knocking Sora off. Goofy climbs up the side of the tiger head and shields Sora from more flying Heartless. Sora continues striking the eyes until the power of darkness is driven from the Cave of Wonders. Once everything settles down, they enter the cave. Fighting Heartless through the labyrinthine halls of the Cave of Wonders, they drop down to a watery level and Sora destroys a pillar with a Fire spell. Meanwhile, in the Lamp Chamber, Jafar stands next to an enslaved Genie as Jasmine lies unconscious on the stone floor. Jafar taps his snake staff on the ground and holds up the magic lamp Jafar My first wish, Genie! Show me the Keyhole!
Genie looks over, despondently, and snaps his fingers. The rock wall bursts open, revealing pillars and a Keyhole beyond. Jafar cackles evilly. Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Aladdin make their way past the Treasure Room and into the Lamp Chamber, where they find Jafar speaking with Maleficent Maleficent That boy again? Jafar Hes more persistent than I expected. Why not explain the situation to that boy Riku? Doing so may actually prove useful to our--
He is distracted by footsteps, and turns to see Sora and company arrive Sora Wait a second. Are you Maleficent?
The witch vanishes without a word Aladdin Jafar, let Jasmine go! Jafar Not a chance.
She lies at his feet in front of the Keyhole Jafar You see, shes a princessone of seven who somehow hold the key to opening the door. Goofy Open... Donald ...the door? Jafar But you fools wont live to see what lies beyond it. Genie! My second wish. Crush them!
Aladdin gasps as Genie hangs in the air Aladdin Genie, no! Genie Sorry, Al. The one with the lamp calls the shots. I dont have a choice.
Jafar lifts his snake staff into the air, and its eyes glow, creating a magic barrier around the room, blocking the exit and the Keyhole. Jafar begins chanting a spell and he sends a beam of heat from his staff at them. Aladdin runs forward and attacks Jafar, who teleports to a platform on the other edge of the room as Genie floats toward them Genie Im really sorry about this. Run!
He swipes at them, but they dodge his attacks and follow Jafar. Sora catches up and begins thrashing with his Keyblade, causing Genie to cheer. Jafar chants another spell, causing a giant hailstorm in the center of the room, trapping Donald and Goofy. Aladdin strikes from behind while Jafar is distracted and the vizier pulses with energy. Lightning crackles around him and he screams. Aladdin runs over to Jasmine, but before he can reach her, Jafar gets an idea Jafar Genie!
They turn to see Jafar floating in the center of the room, holding up the magic lamp Jafar My final wish! I want you to make me and all-powerful genie!
Genie covers his eyes and looks away, pointing his finger at Jafar and releasing as small amount of wish energy as possible. It strikes Jafar, who begins to glow and the floor crumbles beneath him, revealing a large pool of lava surrounding stone platforms. Jafar descends towards the pool and they stare down into the frightening, gaping maw. They jump down into the cavern, searching around for Jafar, when suddenly he bursts out of the lava with a great laugh. He gazes down at them evilly in his red genie form, brimming with power and malice. Iago flies by them, holding a coal black lamp Aladdin The lamp! Get Jafars lamp! Jafar Iago! Keep the lamp away from them! Iago Yeah, yeah, I hear you!
Jafar begins throwing molten rocks at them as they go after Iago Iago Nag, nag! Its all he ever does!
The air is dense with heat, making it hard to breathe. They corner Iago on a faraway platform as Jafar rises up to meet them. Sora sends a Blizzara spell at him, but he shrugs it off Iago Ugh! Is it hot in here, or is it just me?
After attacking Iago for a while, the bird lands Iago Water! Water! Jafar Keep moving!
Jafar heals Iago Iago I dont need your help, all right!
Iago takes back the lamp and continues flying around with it. The platforms rise higher, allowing them to knock the lamp away from the bird. It drops to the ground and Sora grabs it Sora Okay, Jafar! Back to your lamp!
He holds it up and Jafar screams as magic whips around him, pulling him into the magic lamp. Jasmine watches from above, before hearing footsteps behind her. She turns around slowly and is taken. The magic carpet brings Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Aladdin back to the Keyhole, but Jasmine is nowhere to be found Aladdin Jasmine? Jasmine!
The Keyhole glows in the presence of the Keyblade and Sora seals it. Magic swirls around the Keyhole and a curtain of gold sparkles covers it with a loud locking sound. The cave begins to rumble and Goofy covers his head with his shield Goofy Whoa, wed better get out of here! Aladdin Jasmine!
They pull Aladdin onto the magic carpet and it speeds them out of the Cave of Wonders. They fly back to Aladdins House Aladdin So, Jasmines no longer in Agrabah. Sora, lets go find her. Sora (sadly) Sorry. I cant take you with me. Aladdin Wh-Why not?
Aladdin sits down Goofy I sure wish we could... Donald But we cant. If we take him to another world, we would be... Goofy Muh... Mudd Donald Meddling! Sora Aladdin, well find Jasmine. I promise. Genie (patting Aladdins back) Uh, earth to Al. Hello? You still have one wish left. Look, just say the word. Ask me to find Jasmine for you. Aladdin I...I wish...
Genie rolls up his imaginary sleeves Aladdin For your freedom, Genie. Genie (surprised) Al!
Magic swirls around Genie, whos smoky tail splits into two legs, and the golden cuffs on his wrists disappear Aladdin A deals a deal, Genie. Now you can go anywhere you want. Youre your own master. But if you can, itd be great if you could go along with them and help Sora find Jasmine.
Genie turns away, crossing his arms Genie Sorry, Al. Im done taking orders from others. But... A favor, now thats entirely different.
He looks back at him, smiling brightly Genie I guess I could give that a try.
He leaps over, putting a hand on Aladdins shoulder Genie After all, were pals, right, Al? Aladdin Genie... Genie (smiling) Just leave it to me!
Aladdin runs a hand through his hair and chuckles. Meanwhile, in a dark chapel, Maleficent and Hades stand around a table. Hades sighs as Maleficent faces away from them Hades That smarmy vizier couldve had emif someone had stuck around to give him a hand.
He looks over at Riku, who glances back at him with narrowed eyes Riku Hey, I did my part. I brought the princess, didnt I? Maleficent Jafar was beyond help, consumed by his own hatred. One should beware of letting it burn too fiercely. Hades Whoa, whoa, whoa. Lighten up. Im as cool as they come, okay? By the way, kid, have we got something special for you. Riku Huh?
Riku looks toward Maleficent Maleficent We had a deal, yes? You help us, and we grant you your wish...
An image of Kairi appears on the table Riku Kairi! Maleficent Go to her. Your vessel is waiting.
A man walks in wearing pirates robes and a large feathered cap. He holds up a hook for a hand, smirking ???? Just remember, this is no pleasure cruise. It wont be a pleasant voyage. Riku (to Maleficent) Why are you doing all this for me? Whats the catch? Maleficent (turning to face him) Catch? Whats the catch?
She bends down to him, placing a hand on his cheek Maleficent Silly, boy. Youre like a son to me. I only want you to be happy.
He knocks her hand away Riku I seriously doubt that. Maleficent Believe what you wish. But lest we forget, I kept my end of the bargain.
He stares at her before walking towards the pirate. Back in Agrabah, Sora speaks to Aladdin Aladdin Here. Take this with you.
He gives Sora a keychain Aladdin Sora, please find Jasmine for me.
They return to the gummi ship Sora Could this torn page be from Merlins book? Goofy Lets return to town and give it to him.
They return to Merlins Study and Sora enters the 100 Acre Wood. He finds a tall, curious tree buzzing with bees ?????? Hello, i-is anyone there?
From inside a log nearby, a small piglet walks out, looking around nervously ?????? Wh-Wh-What am I to do? Im all alone. (calling) Pooh? Pooh? Where are you? Its me, Piglet.
He turns around and a shadow creeps over him. He looks up to see Sora towering over him and runs away behind the tree. He peeks out from its trunk, checking to see if Sora is gone. Sora sneaks up behind him and he stands frozen in place, completely terrified Piglet Oh dear! I was j-just... N-Never mind. Im sorry!
Piglet closes his eyes and Sora kneels down to his level Sora Dont be scared. Youre looking for Pooh, right? Piglet You know Pooh?
He sighs with relief Piglet Oh, y-you see, I-I have something for him. I have to take it to Pooh right away!
He turns, seeing Winnie the Pooh walking towards the tree Piglet (calling) Oh, Pooh!
He runs to meet the bear, who begins sniffing the air, smiling Pooh Oh, I believe I smell a delicious somethinga something like honey! Piglet Pooh!
Piglet meets him in front of the tree Pooh Hello, Piglet. How have you been? Piglet Oh, I-Im so glad to see you. I thought youd gone away. I brought wh-what you asked for.
He gives Pooh a blue balloon Pooh Thank you, Piglet. Now I can finally have some honey. Piglet Really? B-But how? Pooh I shall hold on to the balloon, and fly like a bee up the Hunny Tree, see. Piglet But if you take their honey, wont the bees be angry? Pooh Hmm...
He stares at the balloon, thinking Pooh Oh!
Sora walks over to them Pooh If you could only chase away those bees, Im quite certain I could get a small morsel of honey. Would you help me get some honey? Sora Sure!
Owl lands on a branch above them Pooh Oh. Hello there, Owl. Owl Good day, Pooh. What are you doing? Using a balloon to get some honey? Splendid idea! Allow me to offer a few pointers.
He flies to a higher branch Owl Ahem! Now, Pooh can get honey by floating up this tree with his balloon. The honey is inside the tree hollows, not the beehives you see here.
He flies to an even higher branch Owl Theres quite a lot of honey in these holes. If Pooh gets too close, the bees will come out to protect their honey. If they get to Pooh, theyll pop his balloon. Lock onto the bees and swat them away. The more time Pooh has at each hollow, the more honey he can eat. Theres more honey higher up, too. If jumping from branch to branch proves difficult, try the Rush command. Rush can help you catch up to Pooh quickly. But it isnt fully reliable. Good luck.
Sora helps toss Pooh into the air and he floats up the tree, gathering honey. Sora swats away the bees that attack, letting Pooh enjoy his meal. Pooh grabs handfuls of honey in his mouth from inside the tree Pooh (giggling) It is rather funny what I will do for honey.
Sora leaves the 100 Acre Wood with a summon gem in hand. He gives it to the Fairy Godmother Fairy Godmother Oh, another summon gem? Lets help this little one. Here we go! Bibbidi-bobbidi-boo!
Sora is granted the power to summon Bambi Fairy Godmother If you find any more of these stones, bring them to me.
The leave Traverse Town and fly the gummi ship to the next world. Traveling through space, they come upon a strange gray object ahead Donald What is that? Sora Wow, its huge!
It flies over them Goofy Its a giant whale! Jiminy Its Monstro! Hes a whale of a whale, and vicious besides!
It flies back around Donald Whoa! Sora, get us out of here!
It makes its way toward them, opening its enormous jaw, revealing a mouth full of teeth Sora Too late! Hes going to swallow us!
It overtakes the ship and Soras life flashes before his eyes. He remembers a day, 9 years ago, that he spent with Riku on the Destiny Islands. He walks down the stairs with Riku, his small hands folded behind his back Sora Its true! I saw it with my own eyes! Riku You sure you didnt just hear it this time? Sora What difference does it make? Theres a huge monster in there, I tell you! Riku All right. Suppose there really is a monster... Think we can beat it by ourselves, Sora? Sora No problem. Lets do it!
They walk to the entrance of the Secret Place Sora Listen! There! Can you hear it growling? Riku Shh, quiet.
Riku bends closer, listening over the sounds of the waterfall nearby Riku Weve gotta be careful.
They enter slowly and the sounds of the waterfall drift away. They find nothing in the empty cave apart from a hole in the ceiling that air was pushing through Riku See that? It was just the wind making that noise. Sora Aw, man. I wish it was a monster! Hold on! Whats that over there?
He looks over to see a wooden part of the cave wall. Riku inspects it closely Riku A window, or maybe a door? It wont open. Sora (looking around at the empty walls) Geez, is that really all thats in here? Riku What do you expect in a boring place like this?
Sora continues searching the cave Riku Hey, Sora. Sora (looking back at him) Hm? Riku When we grow up, lets get off this island. Well go on real adventures, not this kid stuff!
Rikus eyes grow wide with anticipation Sora Sure. But isnt there anything fun to do now? Hey, you know the new girl at the mayors house? Did you hear?
Sora exits the cave, with Riku following, and the scene turns back to the present, the sounds of the wind becoming the sounds from Monstro the whale, where Sora, Donald, and Goofy have been thrown from the ship inside its mouth. Sora lies on the ground, hearing a yell Donald Knock it off!
Sora shakes his head and stands up to meet Donald and Goofy. Goofy is covering his head with his shield again while Donald taps his foot on the damp floor Goofy Hey, Sora. Are you okay? Sora What are you guys doing? Where are we, anyway?
He looks around before an item comes flying from overhead. Sora dodges backward Sora Whoa! Goofy Uh, ya know, I think that big ol whale Monstro just swallowed us. And for todays weather: expect showers.
Another item falls and hits Goofys shield Goofy Heavy showers!
Donald continues to look up at someone on a high ledge, searching through a treasure chest Donald Hey! Whos there?
A wooden puppet looks down at them from the ledge Pinocchio Its me. Donald Oh, its just Pinocchio. ...Pinocchio!?
Jiminy jumps onto Soras shoulder Jiminy Pinocchio?
Pinocchio begins walking down the ledge away from them carrying a large gummi block Jiminy Pinocch, where are you going? Pinocch! Come on, everybody! After him! Quick!
Pinocchio hops along the various wood piles scattered throughout Monstros enormous mouth. Sora, Donald, and Goofy makes their way over to a wooden boat where Pinocchio is talking to an old man ???????? What have you got there, Pinocchio?
Pinocchio sets the green block down on the deck Pinocchio With this, we can get out of her, Father. ???????? Really? With this big block? You think so? Sora Its true.
They turn to see Sora, Donald, and Goofy climbing the edge of the ship Sora So, how did you end up here, Pinocchio?
They stand onto the deck ???????? Oh, my. So the whale swallowed all of you, too? My goodness. Sora Yeah, looks like it. ???????? My name is Geppetto. Im Pinocchios father. When we got separated, I traveled all over, looking for him.
Pinocchio is distracted by something behind him and he walks over the plank Geppetto Thank goodness were together again.
The puppet sees someone running further into the whale as Geppetto picks up the gummi block Geppetto So, you seem to know Pinocchio quite well. I hope he was a good boy in my absence.
He places the block near his bed as a goldfish swims in its bowl on the bedside table Geppetto Well, weve all had quite a journey. Right, Pinocchio?
He looks around for his son Geppetto Pinocchio? I warned him not to wander off here. He can be a naughty boy. Even so, hes very precious to me.
Sora, Donald and Goofy go after Pinocchio, finding him hiding in an inner chamber Sora What are you doing? Come on, lets go back. Goofy You know, Geppettos awfully worried about you. Sora (sternly) Pinocchio, stop fooling around! This is no time for games!
They start to turn away Riku But, Sora, I thought you liked games.
Sora whirls around to see Riku Riku Or are you too cool to play them now that you have the Keyblade? Sora Riku! Wh-What are you doing here? Riku Just playing with Pinocchio. Sora You know what I mean! What about Kairi? Did you find her? Riku Maybe. Catch us and maybe Ill tell you what I know. Sora Come on!
Riku grabs Pinocchios hand and leads him further into Monstro. They search through the various maze-like innards of the whale, fighting numerous Heartless, though finding no trace of Riku or the puppet. Maleficent appears to Riku Maleficent Why do you still care about that boy? He has all but deserted you for the Keyblade and his new companions, after all. Riku I dont care about him. I was just messing with him a little. Maleficent Oh, really? Of course you were.
She smiles Maleficent Beware the darkness in your heart. The Heartless prey upon it.
She summons a corridor of darkness and walks into it Riku Mind your own business.
He stares at her as she leaves. Sora, Donald, and Goofy chase Pinocchio, who passes by Riku into the bowels of the beast Sora Riku! Whats the matter with you? What are you thinking? Dont you realize what youre doing? Riku I was about to ask you the same thing, Sora. You only seem interested in running around and showing off that Keyblade these days. Do you even want to save Kairi? Sora I do.
Pinocchio screams and they run into the Bowels. They find him trapped inside a large Parasite Cage Heartless. It swings its appendages when they enter, waiting for them to come near Riku You up for this?
Sora assumes a fighting stance Sora No problem. Lets do it! Pinocchio Get me out of here!
Sora attacks the small head attached to its arms as it swings the arms wildly. Riku runs behind it to avoid them and strikes. Sora leaps at it, while Donald sends a Thunder spell, but it lifts an arm and Sora crashes into it, falling to the damp floor Pinocchio Help! Its scary in here!
Sora attacks the bottom cage-like head of the Heartless where Pinocchio is trapped, but the beast will not budge. Its arms take out Goofy while Sora gives it an upward strike. It begins to wobble, grabbing the ceiling for balance, and spits out Pinocchio into a hole in the floor. Riku jumps in after him as the Heartless escapes. The water level in the mouth decreases as Sora, Donald, and Goofy land on the deck of Geppettos ship Geppetto Pinocchio! Pinocchio! Please! Give me back my son!
Riku is on a high ledge, holding Pinocchio under his arm Riku Sorry, old man. I have some unfinished business with this puppet. Geppetto Hes no puppet! Pinocchio is my little boy! Riku He is unusual. Not many puppets have hearts. Im not sure, but maybe he can help someone whos lost theirs. Sora Wait a minute. Are you talking about Kairi? Riku What do you care about her?
He walks toward Monstros throat. They go after him by climbing the piles of wood near the mouth. Sora finds another summon gem on top of one of them. They enter the throat and make their way to the stomach. Riku sets Pinocchio down on one of the platforms lining the walls as stomach acid pools on the floor Sora Hey, let Pinocchio go, Riku.
He turns to see them. Pinocchio sits, unmoving Riku A puppet thats lost its heart to the Heartless... Maybe it holds the key to helping Kairi. How about it, Sora? Lets join forces to save her. We can do it, together.
He starts walking toward Sora, who takes out the Keyblade Riku (stopping) What? Youd rather fight me? Over a puppet that has no heart? Sora Heart or no heart, at least he still has a conscience. Riku Conscience?
Jiminy Cricket runs over to Pinocchio Sora You might not hear it, but right now its loud and clear. And its telling me youre on the wrong side! Riku Then you leave me no choice. Jiminy Pinocchio! Pinocchio! Pinocchio (weakly) Jiminy... Im not gonna make it.
Suddenly, his nose grows Pinocchio Oh! I guess Im okay!
Jiminy jumps happily. Sora looks over to Donald and Goofy. Riku thinks for a second before looking up suddenly as the Parasite Cage falls from a hole in the ceiling. Riku makes a quick exit through a corridor of darkness, leaving them alone with the Heartless. Pinocchio runs out of the stomach and the Parasite Cage picks itself up on its arms and swings itself at Sora and company. Donald yells and sends a Thunder spell at it, while Sora runs up to it and begins striking its body with the Keyblade. The Parasite Cage begins swinging its arms again, but Goofy slams his shield into them, causing the Heartless to reel back. The top head falls backwards, causing the cage to open. It lies there, unconscious, while Sora continues to deal damage to it. It straightens up and begins swinging its arms again, knocking out Donald. The Heartless places its arms into the stomach acid, sucking it up through its appendages, and blowing it out through its mouth. Sora falls in pain Goofy falls unconscious. While the Parasite Cage continues swinging its arms madly, Sora uses Cure on both Donald and Goofy and the three of them move in unison. With a few more strikes, it flies backwards, a glowing heart coming out of its cage- like mouth and floating away. It begins to fall over, splashing acid everywhere Donald Run! Sora Riku! Riku, where are you?
Riku has returned to his vessel, standing in the captains hold, talking to Maleficent Riku So, Kairis like a lifeless puppet now? Maleficent Precisely.
He stares at Kairis body, lying on the couch in front of him Riku And her heart was... Maleficent Taken by the Heartless, no doubt.
He whirls around, the desperation showing in his eyes Riku Tell me! What can I do? Maleficent There are seven maidens of the purest heart. We call them the princesses of heart. Gather them together, and a door will open to the heart of all worlds. Within lies untold wisdom. There, you will surely find a way to recover Kairis heart. Now, Ill grant you a marvelous gift.
She leans closer to him Maleficent The power to control the Heartless.
She raises her arms and green energy surrounds him. He takes it in, feeling its power, and turns to look at Kairi Riku Soon, Kairi. Soon.
Monstro, disrupted by all this agitation, sneezes everyone out. Sora, Donald, and Goofy are back in their gummi ship Goofy I sure hope Pinocchio and Geppetto are okay. Donald Yeah, hopefully they landed safely somewhere. Sora Riku...
They return to Merlins Study in Traverse Town and speak to the Fairy Godmother Fairy Godmother Oh, another summon gem? Lets help this little one. Here we go! Bibbidi-bobbidi-boo!
Sora is granted the power to summon Dumbo Fairy Godmother If you find any more of these stones, bring them to me.
Sora enters the 100 Acre Wood, finding a broad expanse of vegetables fields. He walks across the bridge over the stream to a mailbox labeled RABBiT. There is a letter inside I hope well be finding more honey together soon! --Pooh
Sora walks up to the door in the tree, but is stopped by a stern voice ?????? Nobodys home! And Im out of honey!
Sora walks to the back of the tree, where Piglet and Pooh are staring in through a hole in a burrow beneath a sign reading RABBiTS HOWSE. Piglet sees Sora Piglet Look, Rabbts house c-came back! But it looks like Rabbit isnt home. Poohs been calling and calling, but the house says no ones there. Pooh (calling) Nobodys home? ?????? Thats right, Nobody!
Sora runs back around the house and enters through the door Pooh Who is this person named Nobody?
Pooh begins climbing into the burrow Pooh Nobody, have you seen Rabbit? ?????? No! No Rabbit here! Theres no one here!
Inside the burrow, a yellow rabbit sighs as Pooh hops in, Piglet following Pooh Hello, Rabbit! Rabbit Why, P-Pooh. What a pleasant surprise... Nice to see you, too, Piglet. And...
He turns around as Sora enters Rabbit Is this a new friend? P-Pooh, Im sorry, but... Im all out of honey at the moment.
Pooh walks around the room, sniffing the air Pooh Sora, do you smell honey?
Sora sees a honey pot on a tree root going through the ceiling Rabbit H-Honey? Now, how did that get up there? Would you like some Pooh? Dont feel you have to, of course. Pooh Oh, thank you, Rabbit. I would like just a small smackeral. Im quite hungry.
Pooh sits at the table eating from the honey pot Rabbit Um, Pooh Bear...
Pooh eats Rabbit Youre not eating the whole pot, are you?
And eats Rabbit Once you start, theres no stopping you, is there...
And eats Rabbit (defeated) Ohh... Out of honey again.
Sora leaves the house and attempts to walk off the grounds Piglet H-Help! Please help Pooh!
He turns around as Piglet runs up to him, and trips on the ground. Sora runs back inside with Piglet, seeing Pooh stuck in the hole in the wall Pooh Oh, help and bother. Im stuck again. I came in through this hole, so it must have shrunk. Piglet Oh, wh-what to do? Rabbit All this because he cant stop liking honey so much!
Sora runs around to the back of the burrow, where Poohs head and arms are sticking out Pooh Oh, how will I eat honey if Im stuck here? When its lunch time, perhaps you could bring me a honey jar. Rabbit No honey til youre unstuck!
Rabbit runs in Rabbit If Pooh doesnt slim down, my house will stay plugged up forever! If only there were something we could do...
He perks his head up, his ears pointed Rabbit Wait, I know! A bit of carrot top juice will do the trick! I have a carrot patch on the other side of the stream. Carrot top juice is just the ticket to slimming down a Pooh!
He turns toward his garden and shouts Rabbit Oh, no!
He runs ahead, Sora following. He sees a stuffed tiger bouncing into the area much to Rabbits dismay. The tiger jumps onto the bridge, destroying it, and bouncing over to Sora. Rabbit runs over to see the damage and lowers his ears. The tiger tackles Sora, knocking him over, laughing as his tail uncurls behind him ?????? Hey, there! Names Tigger! T-I-double-guh-RR. That spells Tigger!
Tigger looks over Sora, standing on him Tigger Well, now! I dont think Ive ever seen you before! Pooh Hello, Tigger. Youve just bounced my new friend Sora. Tigger Hey, Pooh! Say, youre lookin mighty uncomfy today. Is that some new exercise? Why, bouncin around is a lot more fun.
He leaps off of Sora, who stands up, brushing the dirt off his clothes Sora Wh-Why do you bounce around so much, Tigger? Tigger Why? Cause bouncin is what Tiggers do best!
He puts a paw to his forehead and looks around Tigger Speaking of which, my bouncin spot has gone and disappeared! So for now, thisll be my new bouncin ground.
He laughs and bounces away towards Rabbits garden Rabbit Tiggers bouncing will ruin my vegetables! And if we dont give Pooh some carrot top juice, hell be stuck forever.
Rabbit turns to Sora Rabbit Please help me! Keep Tigger away from my carrots! Owl This is quite a fix. But I have just the solution. Pay attention, now.
Owl flies down to meet them. He takes Sora over to the carrot field Owl Sora, youll have to protect this carrot patch. If Tigger bounces on a carrot twice, itll be buried.
He demonstrates jumping on a carrot Owl Once...
He jumps again Owl Twice!
He flies back off the carrot Owl Just like that. Protect the carrots from Tiggers bounces and youll receive points. How you ask? Its elementary!
He swings out a wing Owl Simply get to the carrots before Tigger lands on them. There are fifteen carrots here. Your score depends on how many you save, and how many times you block Tigger. Oh, and one more thing.
He flies over to Sora Owl The Rush command is the key to a high score. Select Rush while near a carrot that isnt buried yet. Youll dash to the target area before Tigger lands. Well, good luck!
Tigger bounces over and Sora protects the carrots from him. Tigger dances around Tigger How about those bounceroonies? They were good even for a Tigger.
He laughs and bounces away Rabbit Thank you so much. Now Id better make that carrot top juice. Ill get the carrots, so please wait inside the house.
Sora enters the house. Later, Rabbit returns Rabbit Oh, what a day! I gave Pooh the carrot top juice. All we have to do now is push him out. Just a little push should do.
Sora runs and tackles Pooh out of the wall, sending him flying into a pile of honey pots. Piglet covers his eyes while Rabbit is in shock Rabbit First my vegetable patch and now this...
Pooh sits up, a honey pot stuck over his head Pooh Oh, bother. Where am I? Its ever so dark in here. Well, it isnt so bad, I suppose. There is plenty of honey.
He laughs and Sora regroups with Donald and Goofy in Merlins Study. They leave Traverse Town and compete in the Pegasus Cup at the Olympus Coliseum. After making their way through the tournament, they speak to Phil and Hercules Hercules That was great! Looks like Phils trained another great hero! Sora Is strength the most important part of a hero? Philoctetes Well, what you really need is a strong heart. What makes a strong heart? If you have to ask, youre not a hero yet! Sora Stop talking in riddles! Philoctetes Its not a riddle!
They travel to Atlantica Donald Okay, guys. Prepare for landing. Sora Land where? In the sea? Well drown! Donald Not with my magic, we wont. Just leave it to me.
Under the water, fish scurry away as Sora, Donald, and Goofy appear in a flurry of bubbles. They inspect their new aquatic bodies. Sora has the tail of a dolphin, while Donald and Goofy are an octopus and a sea turtle, respectively. They swim around for a while, getting used to being underwater, before a mermaid and a small fish swim towards the alcove, followed by a red crab ????? Come on, Sebastian! Sebastian Ariel, wait! Slow down! Dont leave me behind!
Sebastian comes face to face with a glaring Donald and screams. He swims away frantically while Sora paddles up to them Ariel Relax, Sebastian. They dont look like one of them. Right, Flounder?
She looks down to her fishy friend, whos hiding behind her Flounder I dont know. Theres something weird about them.
Sora laughs nervously Sora What do you mean?
She swims around him Ariel They do seem... a little different. Where are you from? Sora (nervous) Were from kind of far away. And were not really used to these waters.
Goofy has a staring contest with Flounder. Sora continues to laugh nervously, not sure of what to say Ariel Oh, I see. In that case... Sebastian can show you how we swim around here. Sebastian Ariel, King Triton will not like this!
Ariel rolls her eyes and smiles Ariel Oh, dont worry. Sebstian Easy for you to say... Okay, its time you learn how to swim properly. Practice swimming with Flounder. Try to tag him. All right. Begin.
Sora plays tag with Flounder until he gets the hang of swimming Sebastian Good job. Now lets move onto self-defense. Ariel Sebastian!
He looks over to Ariel, who is pointing to the Heartless swimming towards them from the tunnel. Sebastian starts swimming furiously as Ariel swims into a side cave Sebastian Class is over. Good luck!
Sebastian closes himself and Flounder in a clamshell. Sora, Donald, and Goofy fight off the Sea Neon Heartless. Ariel swims back when theyre gone, and Sora opens the clamshell Ariel Those creatures chased us here. Sebastian Oh, no! Those monsters might be heading for the palace, too! Ariel Wed better head back right away! Flounder But, wh-what if we run into more on our way back?
She looks over at the trio Ariel Im sorry, but we need your help. Please come to the palace with us. The trident markers on the walls point the way there. We wont get lost as long as we follow them. Okay, lets get going.
They swim to King Tritons Palace, pursued by Heartless. As they enter the Throne Room, a bolt of lightning obliterates the Heartless Triton That was too close. As long as I have my trident, I will not tolerate those creatures inside this palace. Ariel Daddy!
She swims up to him, smiling Triton Oh, Ariel! When will you listen? Its dangerous out there!
She looks guilty Triton Strange creatures lurk outside.
He gazes at Sora, Donald, and Goofy with stern eyes Sebastian (clearing his throat) Behold. You swim before the ruler of the seas: His Majesty, King Triton. Triton And who are they? Ariel They helped us fight off those creatures. Triton (warily) They dont look familiar. Sora Were from an ocean very far away. Goofy (swimming around) Yup. We came to find the Keyhole. Triton (stunned) The what? Ariel Whats that? Goofy A-hyuck! Well, its a Triton (angrily) Theres no such thing! Certainly not here! Ariel But, Daddy... Triton Ariel, not another word! You are not to leave the palace. Is that clear?
She scowls at him and swims away. Sora, Donald and Goofy swim after her. Triton sighs Triton Perhaps Im being too strict... Im just concerned for her safety.
He watches them swim away Sebastian Of course, Your Majesty. But I must admit, now Im quite curious about this Keyhole. Triton That need not concern you, Sebastian. Have you anything to report? Sebastian Just as you suspected, Your Majesty, they seem to be coming from Ursulas grotto. Triton I knew it. That sea witch is up to no good again.
He strokes his long white beard Triton I see exile from the palace has taught her nothing. Sebastian Yes, she poses serious danger. Triton (sternly) And I told you to keep Ariel away from such danger, did I not? Sebastian (nervously) Your Majesty, please, I, uh...
Ariel leads Sora, Donald, and Goofy to the Undersea Valley Ariel Come to my grotto. I want to show you something.
She points to a large boulder on the sea floor Ariel There it is. See?
They enter Ariels Grotto, which is filled with various thingamabobs from the human world Ariel Look at all the wonderful things Flounder and Ive collected. I think its all from the outside world.
At the end of the room, there is a trident-shaped impression in the rock Ariel Someday, Im going to see whats out there. I want to see other worlds. Does that sound strange? Sora No. Not at all. I used to feel the same way. Ariel Used to? Sora I mean...I still do. Ariel Hey, why dont we try looking for that Keyhole you were talking about? Sora But your father said Ariel Oh, he treats me like a little girl. He never wants to let me do anything. He just... He just doesnt understand.
Sebastian listens from behind a rock, with a sad look on his face. They speak to Flounder Flounder Theres this really big fish who can swim against the current. But hes scared of those weird things swimming around. So if we chase them away, I think the big fishll play with us. Maybe if you grab onto him, hell take you somewhere.
They swim out of the grotto, and two slippery eels come out of hiding. They each have a golden eye, glowing like their vicious grins. In her lair, the sea witch Ursula gazes into her cauldron at an image of Sora and Ariel, laughing to herself Ursula Those impudent fools will never find the Keyhole.
The image of Ariel floats out of the cauldron with Ursulas hand movements Ursula But the girl could prove useful. And Ive got the Heartless on my side.
Her long tentacles sway behind her Ursula Triton, my old friend... Your day is coming.
She cackles loudly. Meanwhile, Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Ariel find a dolphin swimming in the Calm Depths. After eliminating the Heartless in the area, the dolphin lets them ride it through the rough current to a large area with a Sunken Ship. They enter the ship and an ominous shape swims in the waters above. Once they reach a stateroom inside the sunken ship a huge shark crashes through the window, attempting to bite them. It is unable to swim inside the shape due to its size, so it swims away and waits for them to leave. Inside the ship they find a crystal trident inside a treasure chest Ariel Hm. Its shape reminds me of something...
They leave the ship, where Glut is waiting for them. After a persuasive battle, the shark gives up and swims away. They return to Ariels Grotto and place the crystal trident in the rocky impression Triton Ariel, youve disobeyed me again!
They turn to see King Triton enter. Sebastian is on the floor Triton I told you not to leave the palace!
He sees the crystal trident and is filled with anger. He raises his trident, which starts to glow. Ariel tries to stop him Ariel Daddy, no!
A bolt of lightning fires from the trident and destroys the crystal Ariel (sadly) How could you...
She swims away from him and he turns his eyes on Sora Triton Young man, youre not from another ocean. Youre from another world. Arent you? Sora (surprised) Huh? Triton Then you must be the key bearer. Sora How did you know? Triton You may fool Ariel, but you cant fool me. You dont know your dorsal fin from your tail. Sora Aw... Triton As the key bearer, you must already know... One must not meddle in the affairs of other worlds. Sora Of course I know that, but... Triton You have violated this principle. The key bearer shatters peace and brings ruin. Goofy Aw, Soras not like that. Triton I thank you for saving my daughter. But there is no room in my ocean for you or your key.
Triton leaves the grotto, leaving Sora staring down at the Keyblade. Ariel is alone in the Undersea Garden, crying to herself, when the two devious eels arrive Flotsam My, my, the poor child suffers such deep sorrow.
They swim around her in circles Jetsam What a pity. If only there were something we could do... Flotsam Wait. Maybe she can be of some help. Jetsam Yes. Maybe she can be of some help to you. Ariel Whore you talking about?
They start swimming upwards in a spiral Flotsam Oh, she would surely help you. Jetsam Shed make all your dreams come true. Flotsam & Jetsam Ursula can help...
In a flourish of ink, Ursula appears Ursula You called, my dear?
She smiles down at Ariel Ariel (daunted) Youre Ursula? I was just wondering if Ursula Its all right. Helping others is what I live for. Let me guess. You wish to see other worlds. That shouldnt be too hard. After all, your new friends came from another world. Ariel What?
The witch swims closer to her Ursula But they had special helpthat mysterious key.
Ariel looks toward the sea floor Ursula Now, now. Cheer up, sweetie. You have something special, too.
The eels swim around them as Ursula leans in closely Ursula Now listen carefully. I think the Keyhole they seek is somewhere in the palace.
Ariel swims into the palace throne room Ursula Now, my dear, if you can take me there without your daddy knowing...
Ariel turns as Ursula enters behind her Ursula I can help you get to these other worlds you long for.
She sees the trident floating behind the throne, and smiles. After Ursula snatches the trident, she laughs evilly Ursula The trident is mine at last! And I couldnt have done it without your help, my dear.
Ariel is at the throne beside her father, who looks terribly weak Ariel Ursula, no! I didnt want this! Ursula Why not? Arent you tired of following your dear daddys orders?
The eels swim around them Ursula Oh, yes. We had a deal, didnt we? Time for a little journeyto the dark world of the Heartless! Flotsam We cannot find the Keyhole. Jetsam The Keyhole is not here. Ursula What?
She looks behind her as Sora, Donald, and Goofy swim their way Ursula Why, we have company. Im afraid youre a little late, handsome!
She chuckles, raising the trident and vanishing in a burst of ink just as they arrive. Ariel looks to King Triton Ariel Daddy! Triton (feebly) The trident... We must get it back. Sora Come on, lets go!
They start to swim out, but Ariel stops them Ariel Wait, Im going with you! My father is hurt and its all my fault. I have to stop Ursula!
Sora nods Sebastian Thats right. Im right behind you, Ariel. Triton Ursula draws power from her cauldron. To defeat Ursula, you must strike her cauldron with magic.
They return to the Sunken Ship area and find a large stone with the marking of a sea monster. Behind a sunken lifeboat nearby, there is an something embedded in the wall. Sora is unable to reach it Sora What is that thing? Sebastian Need some help? Ill show you how its done.
Sebastian swims between the lifeboat and the wall and pushes the small rock in the wall, causing the large leviathan rock to sink into the ocean floor. They enter the Den of Tides and follow it to Ursulas Lair. Ursula crawls out of her shell be, scowling Donald Come out! You cant run! Sebastian Your time has come!
She swims toward them giving them a frightening look, scaring Sebastian and Donald. She tosses a potion into her cauldron, which starts to glow. Goofy and Ariel start fighting off Flotsam and Jetsam while Sora and Donald strike her cauldron with magic Ursula Sea and wind, hear my command!
Goofy and Ariel knock Flotsam and Jetsam unconscious and Sora sends a Thunder spell at Ursulas cauldron, which ignites its contents, sending a burst of magic spilling out in all directions. Ursula is knocked out temporarily and Sora attacks with his Keyblade. Soon Ursula regains consciousness Ursula Get up and fight!
She heals Flotsam and Jetsam and begins cackling, spinning wildly in the water. Donald casts an Aero spell on everyone to shield them from her whirling tentacles. Sora starts striking her cauldron until it explodes again onto Ursula Ursula No... Impossible!
The foiled magic disintegrates Flotsam and Jetsam, to Ursulas horror and she swims away in a fury Ursula Youll pay for this! Ariel Lets go. We must get the trident back.
She teaches them Mermaid Kick and they catch up to Ursula in the Open Ocean Ursula You pathetic fools! I rule the seas now!
She brandishes the trident and spins upwards. A wave of ink and darkness emanates from below as she begins growing to an immense size. A crown appears on her head and she towers over them Ursula The sea and all its spoils bow to my power!
They swim upward to escape from her crushing tentacles and she stares down at them with crazed eyes Ursula Hey, you. Not so fast! Get ready for this!
She spits out disorienting bubbles at them, which stop them for a second, but they swim straight at her and begin pummeling away. Suddenly, the current changes and Sora feels himself being swept upward towards her mouth. He swims away frantically as Ariel and Donald attack from behind. He manages to get away just as she bites down Ursula Hmph... Slippery little morsel.
Lightning strikes around them, a defense mechanism, as they attack her directly Ursula You dare to strike me!
She summons an energy beam which she aims at Sora, who begins swimming around her to dodge it, but she continues circling, unwilling to let him escape. She catches her breath after the intense beam leaves her defenseless. Donald and Ariel continue attacking her head while Goofy goes for her hand, which is still clutching the trident. She gathers strength again and lifts the trident high Ursula This wont be pretty!
Several lightning bolts attack the water around them, almost knocking them all out. Ursula, at her wits end, begins inhaling water, dragging Sora toward her. Instead of swimming away, he uses this to propel himself toward her and tackles her with the Keyblade right into her throat. She tries to scream, holding her hands to her throat as the water around her crackles with energy. She begins flailing and disappears in a flurry of darkness, leaving only the trident floating in a beam of light. They return to the Throne Room and speak to King Triton Ariel Daddy, Im so sorry. Sora Please dont be angry with her. Triton Its my fault. You followed Ursula because... I wouldnt let you follow your heart. And when you found that crystal, I lost my temper and destroyed it. Goofy Oh, yeah, the crystal! Why did you destroy it? Triton The crystal held the power to reveal the Keyhole. The Keyhole is dangerous. I had to keep you away from it at any cost. Ariel Daddy... Triton Key bearer, I have one more request: Seal the Keyhole. My trident also holds the power to reveal the Keyhole. Will you do it? Sora Of course. Thats what we had in mind from the start. Ariel Where is the Keyhole, Daddy? Triton You should know better than anyone. Its in your grotto. Goofy Really... Sora, lets go.
They return to Ariels Grotto and Ariel uses the trident to reveal the Keyhole. Sora aims his Keyblade at it and seals it. Ariel floats over to him Ariel Tell me, Sora. Your world, whats it like? Sora Oh, about that... Sorry for lying to you. Ariel (smiling) Its okay. Besides, if you can travel to other worlds, maybe I can, too.
She swims upwards in a spiral, looking towards the surface Ariel So many places I want to see... I know Ill get there someday. Ill find a way somehow. Im sure of it. Sebastian (sighing) Well, if you find it, do me a favor and leave me out of it. Ariel This is from my collection. I want you to have it.
She gives Sora a keychain and they return to the gummi ship Sora I think my magic is as good as Donalds now. Donald No way! Not in a million years. Goofy Why dont you go see Merlin? Work more on your magic.
They travel to Merlins Study and speak to him after training with him a bit Merlin Youre making excellent progress. Heres something for your effort.
He gives them a keychain Merlin Keep it up.
Sora decides to return to the 100 Acre Wood with another torn page. He enters, finding a swing hanging from a stout tree near a river. He sees Pooh and Piglet on the bridge overlooking the river Piglet Look, Pooh. Something is floating this way. Pooh I think youre right, Piglet. What could it be?
A gray donkey floats slowly along the current of the river, a glum expression on its face Pooh (waving) Why, it looks like Eeyore! Hello, Eeyore, if it is you.
He floats toward the bridge Eeyore Hello, Pooh. Yes, its me. Could you pull me out? That is, if its not too much trouble. Of course, you dont have to if you dont want to.
He drifts under the bridge and Sora jumps in to get him. They meet on the riverbank with Pooh and Piglet Eeyore Thank you, Pooh. Thank you, other you. You know, floating along out there, it seemed like something was missing...
Piglet runs behind Eeyore Eeyore And somethings still missing. Piglet Why, Eeyores tail is gone! Is that whats missing?
Eeyore looks behind him Eeyore Lets see... Yep, lost it again. Wonder where it went this time. Its not much of a tail, though Im sort of attached to it. But I dont know why anybodyd look for it. Probably wont find it anyway... Pooh Sora, why dont we all look for Eeyores tail? Owl Lost something?
Owl flies in from above Owl Searching from a high place is the quickest way to find it! Sora Owl, can you fly up high and help us find Eeyores tail? Owl Sorry, but my eyes arent what they used to be. Too much reading, you know. But I can offer good advice! Of course, you dont have to if you dont want to. See that swing up there? Take Pooh there.
He motions toward the tree at the top of a hill Owl Youre a bit too big for the swing, but Pooh should fit nicely. Ill tell you more when you get there.
He flies away. Sora leads Pooh up the hill to the swing, where Owl is perched on the branch above them. Pooh gets on the swing Owl Heres what to do. First, get ready to push. Sora How? Owl Like this.
Owl demonstrates Sora Like this?
Sora pushes the swing gently Sora Hows this? Owl Not bad, not bad! Heres the next step. If you time it right, Pooh will swing higher and higher. Try it! Push too soon, Pooh wont go any higher. Push too late, hell go too high.
With Owls help, Sora pushes Pooh on the swing, tossing him into the air so he can search for Eeyores tail from high above. He lands right in front of Rabbit on a house made of sticks, knocking Eeyore over. Pooh stands up and Eeyore sees something under the pile of sticks Eeyore Hm? That looks familiar...
Sora repins Eeyores tail onto him Pooh Hows it looking? Sora There we go.
Eeyore swings his tail around Eeyore Its not much of a tail, but its mine. Thanks, everyone. Pooh I wish we could put the Hundred Acre Wood back the way it was, too!
Owl sits on the branch of the tree, waving a wing. Poohs words make Sora more determined to find the rest of the books torn pages. Sora leaves the hill and finds Pooh at his house, sitting on a log outside Pooh (shivering) Brrr! I think I spend too much time on the swing.
Sora targets the pile of sticks in front of them and ignites them into a small fire. Pooh extends his hands to warm them Pooh Thank you, Sora. This is nice and warm. Youve helped us so much. This is just something to say thank you.
Pooh hops off the log and gives Sora a Mythril stone. Sora leaves the 100 Acre Wood and the three travel to a dark world filled with pumpkins and ghosts. Donald changes their outfits so they blend in with the eerie scenery Goofy This sure is a spooky place. Ill bet the people here are scary- lookin too. Donald Dont worry. We look spooky, too. If they scare us, well scare them right back! Goofy You think so?
They enter the Town Square and an explosion goes off in a nearby laboratory, sending smoke into the air. They see a group of Search Ghost Heartless in town, but they dont attack. Sora makes his way over to the laboratory when they hear a booming voice ????? And now, allow me to introduce...
They look over to see a short man in an extremely tall hat speaking through a megaphone. He wears a spider as a bow tie and a ribbon reading Mayor is attached to his business suit. From their angle, it looked like he had a second face behind his head Mayor The master of terror... the king of nightmaresJack Skellington!
The line of Search Ghosts part as they present the fountain in the middle of the square, where a tall, thin figure was emerging from the green water. He had a black and white striped outfit and long bony fingers. His head was naught but a skull; behind his eyes, only blackness. He strikes a pose and smiles, and the Mayor runs over to him Mayor Bravo, Jack! Bravo! Those ghosts will be a big hit at this years Halloween!
The Mayor grins wildly as Jack steps out from the fountain Jack Thank you, thank you! But their movement still needs work. Its not scary enough.
He hangs his head Jack I want to strike bone-chilling terror.
He lifts his arms in a creepy pose, and the Mayor backs up Jack Im going to consult the doctor.
He stands and walks to the laboratory Mayor Then Ill go attend to the decorations.
He runs away gleefully. So gleefully, in fact, that he runs in the wrong direction and has to turn around. Sora, Donald, and Goofy follow Jack to Doctor Finkelsteins research lab, where the doctor is inspecting the Heartless on the examination table from the comfort of his wheelchair. The various machines on the walls gurgle and hiss Jack I dont understand. Maybe the guidance system was damaged in the explosion. Finkelstein Nonsense. My devices are always perfect!
Jack searches through the doctors research book Jack Oh, Ive got it! Why, of course! The Heartless need a heart! Doctor, do you think we can add a heart to that device? Finkelstein Certainly. A hearts not all that complicated.
He rides his motorized wheelchair to the end of the table Finkelstein Lets get to work. Jack (reading) To make a heart, first take a container with a lock...
The doctor pulls out a pulsing box shaped like a human heart with a large keyhole on it Finkelstein We need the key to this thing first! Donald Youre really gonna unlock it for them? Sora Why not? If they succeed, we wont have to fight the Heartless, right? Besides, I want to see the Heartless dance, too. Dont you? Donald Not really.
Sora unlocks the heart for them Jack My! That was amazing! Uh, and you are...
He cocks his head to the side Sora Sora.
Jack walks up to him Jack Well done, Sora! Id like you to be a part of this years Halloween. Sora (pointing) Whats this Heartless doing here? Jack Oh, the Heartless came to town just recently. Whats frustrating is I cant get them to dance with me. So the doctor and I are trying to improve the guidance system. Hes quite a genius! Okay, Doctor, lets continue. The ingredients for a heart: Pulse.
A pulsing frog is placed on the table Jack Emotion. Finkelstein Terror.
Then a large spider Jack Fear.
The doctors hand slides off a pane of glass on the table, making an eerie screech Jack Hope and despair.
Two snakes, with their mouths over each others tails, are placed on the table and they glance at one another Jack Mix them all together, and we have a heart!
The doctor completes this and places the heart into the console of the machine. He wheels over to a large lever and initiates the experiment. The machine sparks to life, gears clicking and whirling. Electricity crackles over the Heartless, who suddenly sits up with its arms outstretched, before falling limp Finkelstein It failed!
Jack looks disappointed and the doctor peers over his research book Finkelstein Maybe were missing some ingredients. Lets try adding memory.
The doctor opens his skullcap and literally scratches his brain Finkelstein (calling) Sally! Sally! Good-for-nothing girl! Dont know why I bothered creating her!
He slams his fists on the arms of his wheelchair and closes his skull. He whirls around to face them Finkelstein Sallys got the memory we need. See if you can track her down. Jack (patting his chest) No problem. Sora, would you like to come along? Sora Sure.
They leave the laboratory and see the Mayor at the bottom of the stairs, his unhappy face on Mayor (yelling into his megaphone) Jack! Jack! We have a major crisis! The Heartless are completely out of control! We cant stop them! Jack Hmm... Maybe our experiment triggered something. Everything will be fine, Mayor. You have nothing to worry about.
Donald taps his foot, looking in Jacks direction. They enter Guillotine Plaza and fight a group of Heartless before entering the Graveyard Sora Lets check this place, too, once the Heartless here are out of our way.
They defeat the Heartless in the Graveyard and a ghostly dog with a glowing pumpkin for a nose, rises out of his doghouse grave. Jack walks up to him Jack Zero! Have you seen Sally anywhere?
Zero flies over to a gravestone, startling the person behind it. A rag doll with long hair stands up and looks over at them, the stitches covering her body clearly visible Sally Is something wrong, Jack? Jack (excitedly) No, everythings going great. Were going to have the best Halloween ever. All we need now is your memory. Sally Memory? You mean this?
She pulls out a gnarled flower. She gives the Forget-Me-Not to Jack, who stares at it curiously Sally Jack, I have a bad feeling about this. Why dont you try something else? Theres still time. Jack Nothing could beat what Ive got planned!
He spins around to face her Jack Once we give the Heartless a heart, theyll dance just as I envision it.
Sally looks worried Jack Trust me. Youre going to love it!
Sora talks to Sally Sally I have a bad feeling about this. If only Jack would reconsider... Im happy if hes happy, but Im just so worried about him. Im worried about him because I...well, I just am. Jack, why not have these kids star in the festival instead? They both look rather frightful. And funny, too. Theyd be better than the Heartless.
Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Jack leave the Graveyard, with Sally following. From a coffin near the end of the graveyard, laughter erupts before the lid flies open. Three little imps jump out dressed like a devil, witch, and skeleton, respectively. They wear masks on their faces because they like it Lock Lock! Shock Shock! Barrel Barrel!
They huddle together Barrel Did you hear that? Lock Yeah, I sure did! A heart! What should we do? Shock Gosh, you really are stupid! Isnt it obvious? Barrel Tell Oogie Boogie.
They laugh. Sora and company return to Dr. Finkelsteins Lab and give him the memory Finkelstein Yes. This is it. Now, just one more ingredient. We need surprise to complete the heart. The mayor should know where it is.
Meanwhile, Lock, Shock, and Barrel are trembling in the presence of a laughing monster named Oogie Boogie. He has the appearance of a burlap sack tied together with thread. Two holes for the eyes curve evilly, giving him a nightmarish look. His hands and feet end in points, rather than fingers, and an opening in the cloth is stitched together for the mouth Oogie Boogie A heart? That bonehead Jack is really making a heart? Ill be jiggered! That works for me!
He smiles Oogie Boogie Ohh, when I get my hands on that...
He looks at his pointed extremities Oogie Boogie Well, Ive got no hands, but Im still gonna nab that heart and control the Heartless.
He cackles powerfully. Sora, Donald, Goofy and Jack find the Mayor in the Boneyard near a giant pumpkin and talk to him Mayor Ghost rise from those tombstones. Check the tombstones in the order the ghosts appear. If you get it wrong, youre in for a surprise!
He points to a nearby group of gravestones, where they see three ghosts rising from various ones and vanishing. They pick the correct ones and there is an explosion behind them Mayor Splendid! Now go look at the pumpkin.
They turn around to see the pumpkin destroyed with a treasure chest inside. They open it and take out a Jack-in-the-Box. They return to Dr. Finkelsteins Lab and give him the Jack-in-the-Box Finkelstein Yes. This is it.
The doctor assembles the ingredients into the heart Finkelstein There you go. This time its sure to work.
He wheels over with the heart on his lap, when Barrel jumps out from under his research table, tripping him over Barrel Ya!
Finkelstein yells as he falls out of his chair, causing the heart to bounce over the table and into Locks arms. The doctor growls, shaking a gloved fist at them. Lock snickers and the three escape Finkelstein The nerve of those little hooligans, stealing my work!
Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Jack race after the trio to Guillotine Square Sora We lost them!
Jack taps a hand on his leg, calling Zero over to him Jack Zero, after them, quick!
Zero flies towards the Graveyard to Moonlight Hill, where a large curled hill unfurls, making a pathway to a bridge. Lock, Shock, and Barrel ride in a walking bathtub over the hill. Sora and company arrive and defeat the Heartless in the area. They find a hidden switch in a gravestone, which unfurls the hill for them and they walks across to the bridge to Oogies Manor, where the bathtub is approaching a wooden bridge. Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Jack run in Jack I knew Oogie Boogie was behind this!
They stare up towards the twisted mansion. They make their way up the mansion, fighting Heartless until they find the topmost room. They enter the Evil Playroom to find Lock, Shock, and Barrel tossing the heart down a shaft. They whirl around when they enter. Sora and company subdue the three imps and force them to talk Shock We were just following orders! Oogie Boogie told us to steal the heart. Its all Barrels fault! It was his idea to tell Oogie Boogie about the heart. Lock Yeah, thats right! Barrel B-But you guys said Shock You should be ashamed! Lock Oogie Boogie made us do it. We had no choice. Barrel Oogie Boogie told us not to give away his hiding place. Oh, and were not supposed to talk about the lever, either.
Sora activates a lever on a control panel and gears in the wall begin to spin Barrel Whats he going to do with the heart? Beats me. Id stay away from Oogie Boogie if I were you. Shock Hey, I was just following Oogie Boogies orders! We dont have the heart! Oogie Boogie has it! Lock Theres no way Im gonna take you to him! If I did that, Oogie Boogie would eat us too. Shock Youll never find the green door!
They make their way down to Oogies Torture Chamber, which looks like a giant roulette wheel. They run in and find Oogie Boogie with the heart Jack Oogie Boogie, give me back the heart! Oogie Boogie You want it? Well, then come on over and get it!
He puts the heart in his mouth and swallows it to everyones surprise. He beings cackling Oogie Boogie Now, lets see if I can get their attention. (calling) Oh, Heartless!
Two Gargoyle Heartless appear behind him Oogie Boogie This is it?
He starts to get angry Oogie Boogie (yelling) Nobody disrespects me! Nobody!
He pulls a switch causing an explosion from behind Sora and company, knocking them into the pit of the roulette wheel. The Heartless fly down and attack them, but they are quickly defeated Oogie Boogie Cmon, baby!
Oogie, being a gambling man, throws exploding dice into the pit, but they dodge out of the way. Sora activates a switch that raises his section of the pit, allowing him access to the boogeyman. Sora holds a hand to his chest and raises his Keyblade, which lights up and a bubble drops down from above. The bubble pops, revealing a young elephant with enormous ears. Sora jumps onto Dumbo, grabbing onto the elephants hat. Dumbo flies into the air with his huge ears and sprays a torrent of water at Oogie Boogie. Once the boogeyman has had enough of this, he activates an explosion. Dumbo disappears and Sora is sent back into the pit. Donald attempts to strike Oogie from below with Thunder and Gravity spells Oogie Boogie Buzzsaw!
A spinning saw blade whirls past Sora, nearly slicing him in half. The roulette wheel begins spinning around, sending Sora, Donald, and Goofy in front of three slot machines Oogie Boogie Bone Soldiers!
The eys of the slot machines glow and they raise their pistols, shooting at the three of them. They jump out of the way onto another button that sends all four of them upward to face Oogie. They attack Oogie Boogie with everything they have, causing the villains burlap sack to open and a swarm of squirming bugs to fall all over the floor. Oogie Boogie screams before the sack falls motionless with the heart still inside as a final blue bug crawls out of it. It lands on its back, squirming on the floor of the pit Jack So, that heart was a failure after all.
They leave Oogies Manor, crossing the wooden bridge back to the ridge they entered from, when a large explosion occurs behind them, sending everyone off balance Jack Huh?
Dust billows out from the mansion and they hear Oogie Boogie moaning. When the dust settles, they see his body overtaking the house, covered in orb of darkness Sora Whoa! How did he get so big? Jack Look! Its brimming with the power of darkness! Oogie Boogie is drawing power from those dark globs! Sora So we just have to destroy those things, right?
The four jump down as the bridge is now destroyed and make their way up the living mansion, destroying the dark orbs in their path. After the final one is taken out, the mansion quakes and crumbles to the ground. In its place a giant Keyhole appears. Sora sends a beam of light into the air, which breaks up and falls on the Keyhole, locking it. They return to Dr. Finkelsteins Lab, where Sally is waiting for them Jack Sally, why didnt I listen to you? Sally Dont feel bad, Jack. Well come up with another plan for Halloween. Next time, well do it together.
They hold hands and stare into each others eyes. Sora, Donald, and Goofy speak to Jack Jack I guess we have no choice. Well have to cancel the Heartless Halloween festival for now. Here, I want you to have this.
He gives Sora a keychain Jack Visit us any time, Sora. Next years Halloween will be the scariest ever!
The doctor is rereading his research book, thinking out loud Finkelstein Emotion, memory... We put in all the necessary ingredients. What else do you need to make a heart? What is a heart, anyway? I cant figure it out.
They return to the gummi ship and fly through space Goofy Uh, a big ship is catching up to us.
The ship flies past them, its sails clearly visible Donald Quit gawking! Thats a pirate ship!
The Jolly Roger turns and heads straight for them Sora Its going to ram us! Hold tight!
The gummi ship is taken aboard the Jolly Roger. Sora walks along the deck and turns around Riku I didnt think youd come, Sora.
Sora gasps, looking up at Riku on the main deck Riku Good to see you again. Sora Where are Donald and Goofy? Riku Are they that important to you? More important than old friends? Instead of worrying about them, you should be asking...
He moves over Riku ...about her.
Sora sees Kairi, sitting on the floor beside Riku. She is breathing, but making no reactions to anything around her Sora Kairi! Riku Thats right. While you were off goofing around, I finally found her. (Sora starts to run towards them, when a hook blocks his path) ???? Not so fast. No shenanigans aboard my vessel, boy.
Sora looks up to see the pirate captain smirking as he is surrounded by Pirate Heartless Sora Riku, why are you siding with the Heartless? Riku The Heartless obey me now, Sora. Now I have nothing to fear.
Sora glares at him and his careless eyes Sora Youre stupid. Sooner or later theyll swallow your heart. Riku Not a chance. My hearts too strong. Sora Riku... Riku Ive picked up a few other tricks as well. Like this, for instance.
He raises a hand and Soras shadow lifts out of the ground. Sora stares at it in astonishment Riku You can go see your friends now.
A trapdoor opens underneath him and he falls through Riku (to the captain) Lets get under way, already. And keep Sora away from Kairi until were ready to land.
Riku walks towards the Captains Hold ???? (to his First Mate) That scurvy brat thinks he can order me around! ???? What shall we do, Captain Hook? Hook (frustrated) Nothing! The hold is crawling with Heartless.
He makes flourished movements as he speaks Captain Hook Let them keep an eye on the brats. ???? But, Captain, you-know-who is also down Captain Hook Shh... Did you hear that, Smee? Oh, that dreadful sound!
He looks around Smee No, Captain. Hook (shaking Smee) Are you quite sure? Did I imagine it? Oh, my poor nerves...
Down in the Hold, Sora tells Donald and Goofy about Kairi Goofy You dont say? Sora Yeah, it was definitely Kairi. Ive finally found her. Goofy All right! A-hyuck! Then lets go up and talk to her. Sora Yeah! Donald Sounds great. Okay, but first...how about getting off!
Sora and Goofy had fallen on top of Donald Sora Oh, sorry.
They get up off the floor and Sora peers through a window in the door ????? Ahem!
Sora jumps down from the window and they stare at the barrels in the corner of the room ????? How ya doin there? Looking for a way out?
Out jumps a young boy in green tights, carring a dagger in a scabbard at his waist. He wears a green cap over his fiery hair that has a red feather in it Goofy Who are you? ????? (smiling) Im the answer to your prayers.
Donald taps his foot, giving off a squawk in disbelief ????? Okay, then. Fine. Have it your way. Sora But youre stuck in here too, arent you? ????? (crossing his arms) No. Im just waiting for someone. Sora Who?
A bright light flies into the room and swirls around Sora, giving off magical dust. It flies up to the boy ????? Tinker Bell, what took you so long?
The bright light fades and reveals a tiny pixie in a small leaf-like dress. Her wings flutter softly behind her blond updo as she speaks to him through light and sound ????? Great job. So you found Wendy?
She continues making sounds that Sora cannot understand ????? Hold on. There was another girl there, too?
Tinker Bell crosses her arms ????? Are you crazy? Theres no way Im gonna leave Wendy there! Donald Aha. She must be pretty jealous.
Donald laughs and Tinker Bell turns around, stamping her foot in the air and glaring at him. She flies over to him and kicks him on the beak, making him dizzy. She flies out of the room in a huff ????? Come on, Tink! Open up the door! Sora Ahem!
Sora smirks, much to the boys chagrin ????? Im Peter Pan.
He holds out his hand Sora Im Sora.
He moves his hand to shake, Peters but the boy pulls back Peter Pan Okay, were in this together, but only til we find Wendy.
He puts his hands on his hips petulantly. They leave the room thanks to Soras Keyblade and are attacked by a swarm of Heartess. Soras Shadow appears in front of them, taunting them while floating in the air. Sora strikes it and they defeat the Heartless, making their way through the ship undetected. They walk through another hold as Peter Pan flies above them Goofy So, uh, how come you can fly? Peter Pan Anyone can fly. You wanna try?
He whistles and Tinker Bell flies into the room Peter Pan Aw, havent you cooled off yet, Tink?
He takes her by the wings and holds her over Sora, Donald, and Goofy, sprinkling magical dust on them Peter Pan Just a little bit of pixie dust. There. Now you can fly.
Donald jumps into the air, swinging his arms up and down, but he falls to the floor. Tinker Bell flies down and laughs at him, as he taps his finger on the floor. Meanwhile, Riku is in the Captains Hold talking to Captain Hook Captain Hook What? So Wendys not one of the chosen ones? Riku There are seven, supposedly, and Maleficent says shes not one of them.
He faces the door Riku Hoist anchor as soon as possible. Leave all the dead weight behind, including her. Captain Hook After the trouble of capturing her? And why those seven? What is Maleficent planning, anyway? Riku Who knows? As long as it means getting Kairis heart back, I couldnt care less. Captain Hook Youre wasting your time! The Heartless has devoured that girls heart. Ill stake me other hand its lost forever. Riku I will find it no matter what. Smee Uh, Captain...
Captain Hook walks over to a speaking tube, where Smees voice was coming from Captain Hook What? Smee The prisoners have escaped. Whats more, Peter Pan is with them. Hook (annoyed) Blast that Peter Pan! All right, then! Bring the hostage to me cabin, Smee! Hop to it!
In the Galley, Tinker Bell is flying up near the ceiling, getting Peter Pans attention Peter Pan What is it, Tink?
A young girl in a blue dress is sitting on her cot in the room above. There is a grate in the floor with which to see and hear through. She turns her head towards the sound ????? Peter? Peter Pan?
She stands up cordially and rushes to the grate in the floor, kneeling Peter Pan Wendy! Wendy Please hurry! The pirates are coming! Peter Pan What! Ill be right up there! Just hold on! Sora Wendy?
She looks over at him Wendy Yes? Sora Is there another girl in there with you?
She looks up at Kairi, whos still sitting limp on the floor Wendy Oh, why, yes. But she seems to be asleep. She hasnt budged an inch. Sora Kairi? Kairi!
Sora can see part of Kairis leg through the grate. Her arm falls next to her with the movement of the ship. He holds out a hand with a sad, but hopeful face. Wendy stands up and grabs hold of a dresser. Kairis fingers twitch, putting a smile on Soras face. The door opens and Kairi is dragged away. Wendy cries out as she is taken away and the door shuts Peter Pan Wendy! Hey, lets get up there!
They reach a higher level of the ship in the hall where Wendys cabin is. Peter Pan bangs on the locked door Peter Pan (calling) Wendy, are you in there?
They enter another door into a room with a ladder. They climb up to the Captains Hold. Sora runs ahead and sees Riku Sora Riku, wait!
Riku holds Kairi in his arms as a shadow flows in from under the door behind him. Riku backs away towards the door and the shadow leaps out of the floor. It looks just like Sora, staring eerily with glowing eyes. Riku escapes and the shadow crawls along the floor underfoot. Jumping up at Sora, striking him with a dark duplicate of the Keyblade. It moves like Sora, attacking and deflecting blows just the same. Sora goes after it, but it sinks back into the floor, splitting into three copies. The room crowded, Peter Pan flies forward striking them with his shadow and giving a loud crow. He destroys two of the shadows, leaving the real one at the mercy of his blade. Antisora vanishes into a burst of darkness and turns invisible. Catching Sora offguard, he swipes at him in the air, visible for only a second, before disappearing. Antisora makes no sound due to its status as a shadow, so they dont have the help of following its footfalls. Donald attempts to bring it out with Thunder spells, but it wears him out and comes up empty. It strikes at Peter Pan, but Goofys shield blocks it. Sora uses Strike Raid, tossing his Keyblade through the room. It flies through the air, spinning wildly until it makes contact with Antisora, who freezes on the spot, its darkness dripping to the floor. It stands there motionless like a statue before falling into the dark pool. Soras shadow returns to him and they drop down through the floor into Wendys room. They find her laying on the floor with her eyes closed. Peter Pan floats down next to her and picks her head up Peter Pan Wendy!
Tinker Bell flies around in the air above him Peter Pan Come on, Tink! Not now!
He waves her off and she flies away Peter Pan Well, this is as far as I can go. Ive gotta help Wendy.
He picks her up and flies out of the room, leaving Sora, Donald, and Goofy by themselves. They return to the Captains Hold and takes the doorway to the Main Deck, where they find Captain Hook and his army of Heartless Captain Hook Quite a codfish, that Rikurunning off with that girl without even saying goodbye.
He waves in the air Sora Run off where? Tell me, where did he go?
He swipes at the air with his Keyblade Captain Hook To the ruins of Hollow Bastion, where Maleficent resides. But you wont be going there.
He takes an unlit lantern from Mr. Smee, holding it up. Tinker Bell is trapped inside with her hands on the glass. Sora gasps Captain Hook Unless you intend to leave your little pixie friend behind?
He holds his hook up to the lantern scraping the glass with it, scaring Tinker Bell. Sora sighs in exasperation, dispelling the Keyblade. The Pirate Heartless surround them, knives bared Captain Hook Hand over the Keyblade and Ill spare your lives. Be glad Im merciful, unlike the Heartless. So, which will it be? The Keyblade, or the plank?
He points his hook in the direction of the plank, a wooden board hoisted off the side of the deck. He hears a sound in the air and looks to see a sharp-toothed crocodile in the water, the clock inside its belly ticking away Captain Hook (terrified) Its him! The crocodile that took me hand! Oh, Smee! Hes after me other hand! I cant stay here!
It stares up at him hungrily Captain Hook Go away! Oh, I cant stand the sight of him!
Hook retreats to his cabin Captain Hook Smee, you take care of them!
The Pirate Heartless force Sora onto the plank, who backs slowly towards the ocean. When he reaches the edge of the plank, the crocodile opens its wide mouth and Sora hears Peter Pans voice Peter Pan Fly, Sora! Just believe, and you can do it!
Sora closes his eyes and leaps backwards off the plank. He descends toward the crocodile, who jumps at him, but at the last second flies into the air over the deck. Peter Pan swoops down and takes Tinker Bell from Smee, who is distracted by Sora. Sora and Peter Pan land on the deck in front of the flabbergasted first mate. Peter Pan opens the lantern, setting Tinker Bell free Sora Thanks, Peter. Peter Pan Hey, dont mention it. You didnt think Id leave you and Tink behind, did you?
Tinker Bell floats down next to them and Smee runs away, leaving them to deal with the Heartless swarming the deck Sora Youre all going down!
They start attacking the Heartless on the ship and in the air. Sora holds a hand to his chest and the Keyblade flashes. He throws it into the air and catches it. Magic sparks burst out of the tip of the blade uncontrollably and he loses his grip on it. In a final burst of magic, it creates blue smoke which billows upward. Genie appears inside the smoke with a huge grin on his face. He yells and flexes his muscles, spinning around and giving Sora a high five. Genie targets the surrounding Heartless and shoots them with several magic spells Genie Toodle-oo!
He waves and disappears. Once the Heartless are taken care of, Sora and Peter Pan wait outside the Captains Hold. Peter knocks on the door with a devilish grin Captain Hook Is that you, Smee? Did you finish them off?
Peter laughs silently to himself and pinches his nose to sound like Smee Peter Pan (as Smee) Aye, Captain. They walked the plank, every last one of them.
Captain Hook runs out past them and looks around, seeing nobody there, before Peter Pan pokes him with his dagger. Hook shout and jumps into the air, stumbling over his words Captain Hook P-Peter Pablast you!
He glares at the smiling boy Peter Pan Ready to make a splash, you codfish? Now its your turn to talk the plank!
He points toward Hook. Battleship Heartless appear in the air, raining down cannon fire on them. Donald and Goofy fly in the air after the Heartless while Sora and Peter Pan go after Hook, who slashes in the air frantically at them Captain Hook Fire!
Hook throws a box at Sora, which exploded in his face as Peter Pan charges at him with his dagger. Hook blocks and knocks Peter back Captain Hook (mockingly) Come and get me!
Sora slides towards him and attempts to strike with the Keyblade, but Hook jumps back near the rudder. Sora flies up and after him. He sends a Fira spell at the Captain, which sets his trousers on fire, causing him to run around hysterically. He runs over the guardrail of the top deck, and Peter Pan knocks him into the water, making a big splash. He surfaces in front of the crocodile, who opens his mouth happily, his tongue lolling about as he pounces at Captain Hook. The captain runs on the water, screaming, as the crocodile chases him out of sight. Later, Sora stands at the guardrail away from Donald, Goofy, and Peter Goofy Uh, Kairi couldnt wake up, so maybe shes really lost her
Goofy puts his hands over his chest Donald Shh!
Goofy makes a gulping sound Peter Pan Sora. Sora I still cant believe it.
He looks into the night sky, smiling Sora I really flew. Wait til I tell Kairi. I wonder if shell believe me. Probably not. Peter Pan You can bring her to Never Land sometime. Then she can try it herself. Sora If you believe, you can do anything, right? Ill find Kairi. I know I will. Theres so much I want to tell herabout flying, the pirates, and everything else thats happened.
Tinker Bell flies in and speaks to Peter Peter Pan Whats that, Tink? What about the clock tower? You say theres something there?
They fly off the ship away from Never Land to a quaint city where the moon is shining brightly over the large clock tower. The tower has four faces, a clock on each side. As they approach, a cloaked Heartless flies alongside them. Sora looks over and it stares at him beneath its hood, darkness trailing in the air behind it. They stop and it faces them in front of the tower, gathering magic in its fingers. The numbers of the clock start to glow and the minute hand begins to move forward. Donald sees this and quickly casts stop on the clock. The Phantom Heartless swoops forward and attempts to claw at Sora with its sharp fingers. A bright orb of magical energy appears at the base of the Heartlesss cloak. Sora strikes it with his Keyblade and it turned red in color. Donald shoots a Fira spell at it and it turns blue. Smiling, Donald aims a Blizzara spell, and the orb disappears. The Phantom recoils, enraged. It spins around and releases a dark fireball. Sora tries to fly away but it strikes him in the back. Goofy tosses him a Potion and they continue their magic strategy until the Phantom begins to falter in the air. Its hands cover its stomach, bending over in front of the clock. From beneath its cloak, a heart floats out, and the Phantom falls and fades away. Wendy sits at the clock tower as they fly towards her. She stands up as they land. Soon, the clock strikes midnight and the Keyhole appears, shining bright enough to be seen from a distance, flashing between the 2 and 3 on the clock. Sora aims his Keyblade at it and locks it. It glows and disappears, releasing a gummi block. Meanwhile in Hollow Bastion, Rikus memories flash through his mind. He recalls the day nearly 9 years ago when he and Sora discovered the Secret Place Riku Hey, Sora. Sora (looking back at him) Hm? Riku When we grow up, lets get off this island. Well go on real adventures, not this kid stuff!
Rikus eyes grow wide with anticipation Sora Sure. But isnt there anything fun to do now? Hey, you know the new girl at the mayors house? She arrived on the night of the meteor shower!
Sora exits the cave, and Riku follows him, before stopping to look back at the wooden door. A golden Keyhole has appeared on the door and he stares at it in fascination. Riku snaps back into reality, a light from the ceiling casting its glow on him. He is kneeling on the floor, entirely out of breath. He breathes heavily as green torches burn on the walls. Maleficent stands over him, holding her staff strongly, looking down on him with dominating eyes Maleficent (deriding) It was reckless to bring her here without at least using a vessel. Remember, relying too heavily on the dark powers could cost you your heart.
A booming roar resounds from outside the castle, causing Riku to stand and look toward the source of the noise. Maleficent smiles Maleficent A castaway.
Riku narrows his eyes Maleficent Though his world perished, his heart did not. When we took the princess from his castle, he apparently followed her here through sheer force of will. But fear not. No harm will come to you. He is no match for your power. Riku My power? Maleficent Yes, the untapped power that lies within you. Now, child, its time you awakened that power and realized your true potential.
A green aura surrounds Riku and he feels stronger. Meanwhile, Wendy walks along the clock tower as Peter floats near her Wendy Peter, are you really going back to Never Land? Peter Pan Afraid so. But we can see each other any time. As long as you dont forget about Never Land, that is.
He floats closer and they hold hands. Tinker Bell sees this and crosses her arms in jealousy. Donald laughs at her until she turns around and glares at him. He clamps his beak shut and the pixie flies over to Peter and Wendy, spinning angry circles around them. Then she does the same to Sora Peter Pan Oh, boy. Shes getting steamed again. Do me a favor. Look after her for me, will ya?
Tink floats up to Sora and spins around Sora What?
Sora talks to Wendy Wendy Peter remains with me as long as I remember him. You will find Kairi if she remains in your heart. Youll find her Sora. Just dont give up.
Sora, Donald, and Goofy board the gummi ship Donald Well, we found the Navi-Gummi piece. Lets go back to town. Sora Cidll install it on the ship once we bring it to him.
They return to Traverse Town and travel to the First District, where they find Pinocchio and Geppetto in a new house Sora Pinocchio? Pinocchio Hey, its Sora! Geppetto Well, hello, Sora! Sora How did you get here? Geppetto A man named Leon helped us. He even got us this house to live in. I dont know how Ill ever repay his kindness. Say, I hear you three are fighting the Heartless. I thought I might be able to help you, so I made this.
He gives them a gummi ship blueprint Sora For us? Geppetto But of course! Pinocchio and I cant thank you enough! Well do anything we can to help you. Pinocchio Im being good, even without Jiminys help.
They leave and speak to Cid in the First District Cid Looks like you found the other one. Let me see it.
They hand him the gummi block Cid Okay, wait here. Ill get it installed right now.
As they wait for Cid to modify their ship, Sora stares at the ground sadly Donald Sora! Goofy Now, just remember what Donald said to ya: no frowning, no sad faces. Sora How can you be so cheerful? Theres still no sign of your king. Arent you worried? Donald Aw, phooey. Goofy The king told us to go out and find the key bearer, and we found you. So as long as we stick together, itll all work out okay. Ya just gotta believe in yourself, thats all. Sora Just believe...
Sora closes his eyes and hears a voice Kairi I believe in you.
Sora finds himself flying toward a great shining light, which envelops everything. Slowly, a room began to fade in around him, filled with bookshelves and stained glass windows. He floats in the air, watching Sora Where am I?
He sees an old woman sitting on a chair under a long staircase. A young girl with red hair runs up to the woman, who smiles down at her Grandmother Long ago, people lived in peace, bathed in the warmth of light. Everyone loved the light. Then people began to fight over it. They wanted to keep it for themselves. And darkness was born in their hearts. The darkness spread, swallowing the light and many peoples hearts. It covered everything, and the world disappeared. But small fragments of light survived...in the hearts of children. With these fragments of light, children rebuilt the lost world. Its the world we live in now. But the true light sleeps, deep within the darkness. Thats why the worlds are still scattered, divided from each other. But someday, a door to the innermost darkness will open. And the true light will return. So, listen, child. Even in the deepest darkness, there will always be a light to guide you. Believe in the light, and the darkness will never defeat you. Your heart will shine with its power and push the darkness away. Do you understand, Kairi?
Sora blinks and the woman disappears Sora Kairi!?
He scans the room, seeing no one for a second. Blinking again, he is back floating in the air, seeing the 4 year-old Kairi, who looks around. He bends forward, trying to reach her, but she disappears and he is thrown back to reality Sora (shocked) Huh? Goofy Whats the matter? Sora Um, nothing. Kairi... Did you call me?
Cid walks back to them Cid I installed that navigation gummi. But, ya know? That place is crawling with Heartless. Dont say I didnt warn you.
Sora looks confused Cid Here, take this along.
He gives them a gummi block. They leave for the Olympus Coliseum and compete in the Hercules Cup. They reach the final match with Hercules Hercules Show me what youve got! Sora Hercules, wait. Lets go one-on-one! Donald Oh, brother. What a show-off. Goofy Whatre we gonna do? Donald Let him go alone, I guess. Goofy Good luck, Sora! Hercules Im not gonna go easy on you!
Sora fights and defeats Hercules, winning a trophy. Phil dances on the steps of the arena as Sora smiles at Donald and Goofy, holding the trophy in his hands. They return to the Vestibule Hercules Wow! And I didnt even hold back! Sora Now I finally know what you mean about strength of heart. Mine comes from Donald and Goofy. Philoctetes Come again? Sora If we stick together, were unbeatable. Not even Hercules stands a chance.
Hercules smiles Sora With these guys beside me, Im ready for anything! Philoctetes But thats not exactly what I Hercules (picking Phil up) Of course. Your friends give you strength. Isnt that right, Phil? The three of you together make great heroes.
He puts Phil back down Hercules And as a team, Im sure you can overcome anything.
Sora and Hercules slam their hands together. Sora, Donald, and Goofy push the pedestal in the room over to reveal the Keyhole in the floor. Sora stands in front of it and holds his Keyblade up. The blade glows and the Keyhole is sealed. Sora talks to Hercules Hercules Phil wasnt happy that I lost to you. Said I was getting soft. You beat me last time, but next time wont be so easy.
They leave the Olympus Coliseum and travel to the next world. They disembark on a tiled platform in the middle of a raging waterfall. Strangely, the waterfalls seem to be going upward. Goofy points further ahead, past the waterfalls Goofy Gawrsh, look at that! Sora I know this place...
They walk closer and gaze up at Hollow Bastion, a ruined castle, twisted by the darkness inhabiting the world for so long Goofy Hmm, thats strange. Sora I wonder why... I feel this warmth inside, right here.
He places his hand on his chest Donald Aw, youre just hungry. Sora Hey, Im serious!
A loud roar erupts from further ahead, startling them Sora Lets go!
They travel along the crystalline platforms toward the origin of the sound. Above on a platform with a stone arch, Riku is confronting a figure in a violet cloak. From the hairy claws and tail protruding from the bottom of the cloak, it was undeniably animal Riku No vessel, no help from the Heartless... So tell me, howd you get here?
The beast stands on its hind legs as a human, and it gazed upon Riku with the same resolution as human eyes would, but the rest of its body, from its horns to its fangs to its claws, screamed otherwise. It began to speak, its voice low and rough Beast I simply believed. Nothing more to it. When our world fell into darkness, Belle was taken from me. I vowed I would find her again no matter what the cost. I believed I would find her. So, here I am. She must be here. I will have her back! Riku (challenging) Take her, if you can!
The beast roars and leaps up at Riku. It swipes at him with its sharp claws, but Riku flips backward, dodging the attack completely. The beasts cloak settles to his side as Riku lands on his feet. With lightning speed, Riku charges forward at the beast. Sora arrives in time to see the beast fall to the ground with a stinging growl Sora Stop!
Riku looks over at the three of them standing in front of the beast. He smirks confidently Riku So, you finally made it. About time. Ive been waiting for you. Weve always been rivals, havent we? Youve always pushed me as Ive always pushed you. Sora Riku... Riku But it all ends here. There cant be two Keyblade masters. Sora What are you talking about? Riku Let the Keyblade choose...
He holds a hand to his chest Riku ...its true master.
He extends his hand out toward the Keyblade, which begins to shake violently in Soras grasp. Sora grabs the blade with two hands as it starts to pull itself toward Riku. The Keyblade flashes out of Soras hands... Sora & Goofy Huh? Donald What!?
...and reappears in Rikus. He stares up at it, smiling darkly Riku Maleficent was right. You dont have what it takes to save Kairi.
He turns his gaze skyward Riku Its up to me. Only the Keyblade master can open the secret door...
He holds the blade high Riku ...and change the world. Sora But thats impossible. How did this happen? Im the one who fought my way here with the Keyblade!
Riku looks at his Keyblade again Riku You were just the delivery boy.
He dispels the blade and pulls out a wooden sword Riku Sorry, your parts over now. Here, go play hero with this.
He tosses the sword to Sora, which lands on the stone platform with a clunk. Sora falls to his hands and knees in defeat as Riku leaves. Donald and Goofy watch him leave Donald Goofy. Lets go. We have to remember our mission. Goofy Oh! Well, I know the king told us to follow the key and all... But...
He gazes back toward Sora giving a sad grumble. Donald stops Donald Sora, Sorry.
They continue after Riku. Sora doesnt move, feeling the cold stone beneath his fingers and the spray of the water on his clothes. He is nearly deaf to the low growl and thumping footsteps behind him. He looks up, seeing the beast walk past him. He watches as it falls to the ground again with a moan. Sora gets up and runs to his side Sora Hey, dont move. Youre hurt.
He looks over at Sora, who notices his intensely human eyes Beast Why... Why did you...you come here? I came to fight for Belle.
He looks up at the castle and stands up again. He starts slowly walking ahead Beast And though I am on my own, I will fight. I wont leave without her. Thats why Im here.
Sora turns around, staring at the wooden sword on the ground. He picks it up and walks back to the Beasts side Sora Me too. Im not gonna give up now. I came here to find someone very important to me.
They make their way up to the furthest platform and gaze at Hollow Bastion. Mysterious gases swirl from pipes protruding from the castle. The center of its towers displays a large Heartless emblem, shattered from the inside, the gears clearly visible from the platform. Mechanical cranes are built into all sides of the castle, though are largely rusted and overgrown, as if the innards of the castle themselves came alive and rooted themselves deeply across its faade. The rest of the world below has become a barren crystalline wasteland and darkness waits at every corner. A switch activates and a pink light appears at the castle. A magical line appears toward them, bringing a metal platform with it, rigged to the line with electric sparks. Sora and the Beast walk onto the elevator, which takes them up to Hollow Bastion. Finding the castle gates locked, they descend into the watery underbelly of the fortress, finding the access switch in the confusing maze of the dungeons. They release the switch, and the gears in the wall begin to spin and they hear the sound of a door opening. Heading back to the castle gates, they enter the main Hall. Meanwhile in the Grand Hall, Jasmine, Alice, and the other princesses of heart are encased in crystal chambers on the sides of the room under the effects of a sleeping curse. Maleficent walks over an ornate carpet bearing the Heartless insignia toward a large open room, each footfall echoing in the vacant hall. Kairis body rests in a dark capsule in the center of the room. Maleficents fingers curl around her staff as she passes the capsule and ascends the stairs. She whirls around to face the princesses of heart Maleficent O purest of hearts! Reveal to me the Keyhole!
She raises her arms fervently. The hearts of the six maidens lining the walls glow in unison and beams of pink light shine out from them. The six meet at a point in the air over Kairis body, pointing a trail of sparkles to a great heart in the room beyond. Maleficent watches, and smiles. Meanwhile, Sora and Beast arrive in the Entrance Hall, seeing no one Beast Be on your guard. Theyre close, I can feel it. Are you ready for them?
Sora moves forward as Beast gasps Beast Belle?
He whirls around, seeing the faint shape of a woman in a golden dress in the dark doorway. It erupts into a cloud of darkness, where a Shadow Heartless appears. The Beast shakes, rage and frustration flowing within him. He gives out a great roar and charges after the Heartless, the door closing in on him, separating him from Sora. The sound echoes in Soras ears Riku Quit while you can.
Sora turns, seeing Riku with Donald and Goofy Sora No. Not without Kairi. Riku The darkness will destroy you.
Tendrils of darkness erupt around Riku and his clothes take on a darker quality. He clenches his fists, feeling the dark powers inside his heart, and glares at who he used to call a friend Sora Youre wrong, Riku. The darkness may destroy my body, but it cant touch my heart.
He holds a hand over his chest Sora My heart will stay with my friends. Itll never die! Riku Really... Well, well just see about that!
He thrusts his hand forward, releasing a dark fireball aimed straight at Soras heart. The energy courses through his hand, causing the air to ripple, his hair whipping across his face. Sora is paralyzed as it draws near him and he closes his eyes, hearing a crash Goofy Sora aint gonna go anywhere!
Sora opens his eyes, seeing Goofy standing in front of him with his shield out. The energy, upon contact with the shield, has fizzled into the air around him Riku Youd betray your king? Goofy Not on your life! But Im not gonna betray Sora, either, cause hes become one of my best buddies after all weve been through together!
He turns to look at Sora, giving him a thumbs up Goofy (waving) See ya later, Donald. Could ya tell the king Im really sorry? Donald Hold on, Goofy! Well tell him together.
He runs over to the two of them and looks up at Sora Donald Well, you know... All for one and one for all. Goofy I guess youre stuck with us, Sora. Sora (staring at the floor) Thanks a lot... Donald, Goofy. Riku How will you fight without a weapon?
Sora looks back up at him Sora I know now I dont need the Keyblade. Ive got a better weapon. My heart.
Riku scoffs Riku Your heart? What good will that weak little thing do for you? Sora All though my heart may be weak, its not alone. Its grown with each new experience, and its found a home with all the friends Ive made. Ive become a part of their heart just as theyve become a part of mine. And if they think of me now and then...if they dont forget me...then our hearts will be one.
He takes out the wooden sword Sora I dont need a weapon. My friends are my power!
The Keyblade flashes in Rikus hand, much to his surprise. It disappears and he stares at his hand, gasping in total astonishment. The Keyblade reappears in Soras hands, and he stares down at Riku, who takes out Soul Eater, his winged sword. Riku rushes forward attacking Sora in a flourish of hits. Sora dodges sideways and spins around, sliding back toward Riku and striking with his Keyblade. He reels back, landing on his right foot. Bending his knee, he pushes off and jumps into the air over Goofy. Riku lands back on the floor and strikes through Donald, knocking him out. He sends all his frustration into his sword as he slashes at Sora, who holds his Keyblade in two hands, blocking Rikus blows. Seeing a free opportunity, he bashes Riku in the side with the blade, sending him flying backward toward the fountain in the center of the room Riku No... Not yet...
He bends over, breathing heavily. The darkness around his clothes fades and he runs away in disgrace. Beast enters the room behind them Beast So, your heart won this battle.
Sora nods and they continue through the castle. In the Castle Chapel, Riku runs over the cold stone floor out of breath Riku Why? It was mine. ????? Know this.
He stops at the sound of the voice, catches his breath and turns around ????? The heart that is strong and true shall win the Keyblade.
He sees a cloaked figure emerging from the darkness covered in an unearthly glow Riku What? Youre saying my hearts weaker than his?
Riku glares at it in defiance ????? For that instant, it was.
Rikus eyes widen and he shakes his head, staring at the floor ????? However, you can become stronger.
The figure walks closer to him, the X on its chest nearly visible ????? You showed no fear in stepping through the door to darkness. It held no terror for you. Plunge deeper into the darkness, and your heart will grow even stronger. Riku What should I do? ????? Its really quite simple. Open yourself to the darkness. That is all. Let your heart, your being become darkness itself.
Riku glows with a green aura. He looks up at the figure, as it moves closer to him. Meanwhile, Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Beast ascend the castle. As they approach the Castle Chapel, Maleficent stands in the Grand Hall, gazing into the Dark Depths where the Keyhole lays in wait. Riku, in his dark clothing, walks to join her. He speaks, his voice taking on an eerie quality Riku So, I see the path has emerged at last. Maleficent Yes. The Keyhole to the darkness.
The great heart before them brims with energy Riku Unlock it and the Heartless will overrun this world. Maleficent What do I care? The darkness holds no power over me. Rather, I will use its power to rule all worlds. Riku Such confidence.
He holds up his hand and a dark Keyblade appears, the blades teeth forming the negative space of a heart. Maleficent gazes down at it, intrigued Maleficent Oh!
The Keyblade fails to react in the Keyhole presence, much to Maleficents annoyance Maleficent Impossible! The princesses of heart are all here! It must be her.
She turns back, her eyes narrowed in irritation, settling on the body of Kairi, sleeping on the floor. They walk over to her Riku Without her heart, she will never be able to release her power.
They hear a sound and look in the direction of the Castle Chapel Maleficent The kings fools are here. Ill deal with them myself.
She begins to walk away Maleficent You stay here and guard the princesses.
She gracefully exits as Riku watches her leave, a smirk appearing on his face as an unearthly glow surrounds him. Maleficent enters the chapel, coming face to face with Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Beast Maleficent Im afraid youre too late. Any moment now, the final Keyhole will be unsealed. This world will be plunged into darkness. It is unstoppable.
Her eyes flicker with her dark thoughts Sora (arming himself with the Keyblade) Well stop it! After coming this far, theres no way were gonna let that happen!
She glowers at his impertinence, slamming her staff against the stone floor Maleficent You poor, simple fools. You think you can defeat me? Me, the mistress of all evil?
She raises her arms and the platform underneath her rises out of the ground. It hovers in the air out of their reach. She taps her staff against it, and it sails across the room. The top of her staff sparks with green fire and she lifts it into the air, cackling Maleficent Now youll know the meaning of fear! A bolt of lightning to strike them down!
Violet lightning crackles on the ceiling, sending thunderbolts down on top of them. Donald sends a Gravira spell at the witchs platform, causing it to crash to the floor. Maleficent recovers from the fall and they rush in and attack her Maleficent No!
She swipes at them with her staff, knocking Sora away Maleficent Meteors of heaven, unleash thy fury!
Behind her, a swirling vortex appears, and large meteors fly in towards them. The wind whips through Soras hair as they attempt to dodge the unending shower of rocks. Goofy covers himself with his shield as Beast is struck down by a meteor. Donald jumps away, but is sideswiped by another. As the witch cackles evilly, Sora stands his ground, placing a hand over his heart Sora Give me strength!
Sora spins the Keyblade in his hands, holding the blade upwards and turning it clockwise. The tip of the blade glows and magic swirls down the shaft. As it reaches the hilt, Tinker Bell emerges twirling in the air. She flies to Sora and touches his nose, healing him. He smiles as she twirls around him. Tink flies to Beast and heals him as Maleficent narrows her eyes Maleficent Come out!
Tinker Bell continues to heal the party as Heartless appear in the room. Maleficent raises her platform again, knocking Sora and Goofy off, floating to the other end of the room. Sora takes out the Heartless as Donald strikes the platform with another Gravira spell. Sora slides toward Maleficent and attacks her Maleficent Away!
A large bolt of lightning erupts from the ceiling, striking Sora at full force. He falls over, but Tinker Bell revives him and disappears. Donald attacks the witch with various spells as Goofy protects him. Just as she is about to summon another meteor shower, Beast lunges at her, claws bared Maleficent No!
She bends over, her breath coming short. A portal appears behind her and she walks through it. In a hidden room of the castle, Maleficent clutches her chest, using her staff for balance. Her breath came in tight as a corridor of darkness appeared behind where she tread. Riku steps out of it, the dark Keyblade in hand Riku Do you need some help? Sora Riku!
Sora and company enter and Riku turns to face them Donald Is that Riku Yes. A Keyblade.
He holds it up Riku But unlike yours, this Keyblade holds the power to unlock peoples hearts. Allow me to demonstrate... Behold!
He stabs Maleficent in the chest with the Keyblade Maleficent Wha
The witchs chest floods with darkness Riku Now, open your heart, surrender it to the darkness! Become darkness itself!
He releases the Keyblade and retreats into a portal. Maleficent stands up straight, and quietly laughs to herself Maleficent This is it! This power!
She glows with a green aura, laughing Maleficent Darkness... The true darkness!
She erupts in green flames, sending them billowing higher into the air, her dark shadow etched in its smoky tendrils as her form changes. She grows larger, her black cloak expanding outward and filling with green. From her back, large wings push outward splitting to her sides, knocking the green from her body into sparks. The black wings connect with gray translucent skin to a large black body, heavily muscled and scaled. The dragon rears back on its hind legs and slams the ground, eyes and mouth a blazing yellow. Donald sends a Blizzara spell at the dragon, who brushes it off like nothing. Sora goes after the head as Beast charges forward, his roars echoing off the stone walls Beast Step aside!
His claws dig into the dragons flesh. The dragon screeches and spins, knocking them all back with her tail. The dragons mouth foams with green flame and it spew fire from its mouth, setting the room ablaze. Goofy throws his shield at her, but it only enrages the monster further. Donald continues shooting Blizzara spells to try to dampen the fire, while Sora searches for a way over the flames. He whirls around, his eyes settling on the thick vines lining the walls and starts climbing. The dragons screeches, Beast having made it angry enough. It rears back on its hind legs, conjuring fire at the base of its neck. The fireballs fly through the air towards Sora. Finding the highest point of the vines, Sora sees the fireballs coming at him. He sends a Blizzara spell, but it only takes out half of them. Donald sees this and conjures an Aero spell around Sora, protecting him from the rest of the fire. As Beast distracts the dragon, Sora kicks off the wall spiraling towards the creature. He spins and his Keyblade collides with the dragon, who thrashes in pain before crashing to the floor, sending ashes into the air. The thorny vines surrounding the room burst into green flame and disappear as Maleficent leaves nothing but her torn cloak behind. Riku walks over it Riku How ironic. She was just another puppet after all. Donald What? Riku The Heartless were using Maleficent from the beginning. She failed to notice the darkness in her heart eating away at her. A fitting end for such a fool.
He grounds his foot into the floor and the cloak disappears. He backs away into a corridor of darkness. Sora finds a summon gem and they return to the Castle Chapel, where a hidden entrance appears. They follow it to the Grand Hall, where they see the princesses encapsulated. They run up the stairs to the main area in front of the great heart, where Kairi sleeps. A barrier prevents Beast and Goofys entry, to Donalds surprise Sora Kairi!
Sora rushes over and kneels beside her, lifting her into his arms Sora (gently shaking her) Kairi! Kairi! Open your eyes! Riku Its no use.
Sora looks up, seeing Riku sitting above the great heart Riku That girl has lost her heart. She cannot wake up.
Sora sets Kairi down softly, sensing the darkness in Rikus voice Sora What? You... Youre not Riku. Riku The Keyhole cannot be completed so long as the last princess of heart still sleeps.
He drops down off his seat, falling in front of the dark depths Sora (looking down at her) The princess...? Kairis a princess? Riku Yes, and without her power, the Keyhole will remain incomplete. It is time she awakened. Sora Whoever you are, let Riku go! Give him back his heart! Riku But first, you must give the princess back her heart.
He points his Keyblade at Sora, who clutches his chest and falls to the floor, catching himself Donald Sora! Sora Whats Riku Dont you see yet?
He descends the stairs in their direction Riku The princesss heart is responding. It has been there all along. Kairis heart rests within you! Sora Kairi... Kairis inside me?
He looks down at her body Riku I know all that there is to know. Sora Tell me. Who are you? Riku (smiling) It is I, Ansem, the seeker of darkness.
He walks toward Sora, prompting Donald to yell out and rush at him, but simply knocks the duck past the barrier and moves on. He stands over Sora, looking down with euphoria, and points his Keyblade toward him Ansem So, I shall release you now, Princess. Complete the Keyhole with your power. Open the door, lead me into everlasting darkness!
With a mad look in his eye, Ansem lifts the Keyblade, about to strike Kairi Sora!
Sora raises his Keyblade and blocks the strike. Ansem grits his teeth, putting more pressure on the blade Sora (standing) Forget it! Theres no way youre taking Kairis heart!
He knocks back Ansems blade, who extends an arm Ansem Come!
Sora strikes, hitting him square in the side. He winces, but recovers, blocking a further attack. He tries to toy with Sora, forcing him to strike first and dodging at the last minute. Sora blocks his next strike and sends a Thunder spell at Ansem, who responds with a dark fireball that hits Sora straight in the chest Ansem Now witness true power!
An aura surrounds him and he floats into the air, his left hand glowing. He plunges his Keyblade into the ground, unleashing lightning shockwaves from the floor. Ansems eyes are wide with madness and he laughs as he fights Sora. He swipes the Keyblade down, sending a blade of energy surging toward Sora, who deploys an Aero spell Ansem Behold the power of darkness!
Ansem starts running impossibly fast, pelting Sora with blow after blow from his Keyblade as he rushes around the room. Sora endures the blows, waiting for the chance to strike. He heals as soon as he can and once Ansem stops running, tosses the Keyblade at him, hitting him square in the face. Rikus body disappears, leaving behind the dark Keyblade Sora Riku!
The barrier is gone and Donald and Goofy stand in front of the entrance to the Dark Depths Donald Sora! Sora, look! Goofy The... The Keyhole!
Sora walks over to it and aims his Keyblade, which doesnt respond Goofy It wont work! The Keyholes not finished yet!
Sora puts his Keyblade away Sora What can we do? Goofy Maybe weve gotta go wake Kairi up. Sora I think youre right.
They turn in her direction and Sora places his hand on his chest Sora If we can free her heart... But... But how?
His eyes settle on the dark Keyblade Sora A Keyblade that unlocks peoples hearts... I wonder. Goofy Sora?
Sora walks over to the Keyblade and picks it up Goofy Sora, hold on! Donald No, wait!
He smiles at them and holds the blade in both hands, stabbing himself in the chest. His chest glows brightly and the Keyblade floats out of him. He closes his eyes and starts to fall backwards. The dark Keyblade splits into six hearts, that float back into the princesses. Another heart surges from Soras chest and floats back to Kairi, who opens her eyes. The entrance to the Dark Depths shimmers, the barrier broken, and Sora glows brightly, slowly falling. Donald runs toward him Donald Sora... Sora!
Kairi jumps to her feet Kairi Sora!
She runs to Sora, but as she touches him, he bursts into a million points of light, which float into the air and disappear, leaving Kairi in shock Donald (shouting) Sora! Come back, Sora!
Sora floats through an endless abyss Sora Whats... Whats happening to me? Falling...falling...into darkness.
Kairi, Donald, and Goofy stand motionless, waiting for any sort of sign Kairi Sora, are you reallyNo. He cant be! I wont let him go!
A corridor of darkness appears and a tall man with silver hair and orange eyes steps out Ansem So, you have awakened at last, Princess. The Keyhole is now complete. You have served your purpose. But now its over.
He walks slowly towards Kairi, and Donald and Goofy brandish their weapons Donald Dont make another move! Goofy (to Donald) Do you think we can stop him all by ourselves? Donald I dont know!
As he approaches, he stops, struggling to move his own body Ansem Impossible...
He grunts, a prisoner in his own body. An image of Riku appears before him, facing the other three Riku No. You wont use me for this!
Riku holds out his arms, blocking Ansem from proceeding further but also shielding them from him Kairi Riku! Riku Youve got to run! The Heartless are coming!
A horde of Shadow Heartless appear and surround them. Kairi touches her necklace and nods. Donald screams as the three of them escape from the Grand Hall Goofy What about the Keyhole? Donald Lets just get out of here!
A lone Shadow watches them leave, its antennae wriggling in front of its glowing eyes. It jumps down from the upper platform in their direction. In the Entrance Hall, Donald and Goofy wait at the castle gates while Kairi stops at the head of the stairs Goofy Kairi, hurry! Kairi I cant leave them behind! Donald We cant stay here!
She runs down the stairs as the Shadow appears in the hall) Goofy: A Heartless is after us! Donald Ill take care of him!
(The Heartless descends towards them and Donald hits it on the head with his magic wand Donald Confounded Heartless! Get lost, will ya?
It appears unfazed and looks over at Kairi. There is something about this Heartless, something different, and Kairi can feel it. However strange, however impossible, she knows it to be true Kairi Sora? Is that you?
The group is suddenly surrounded by Shadows Goofy Uh-oh!
Goofy and Donald rush to fight them as Kairi stands back, bravely shielding the little Heartless Kairi This time, Ill protect you.
The Heartless surrounding her slowly move closer to their prey. They pause, their antennae and glowing eyes taking in every sense. They pounce and Kairi whirls around, putting her arms around the lone Shadow, her eyes clenched shut Kairi Sora!
Goofy and Donald defeat the rest and turn to see the group of Shadows covering Kairi. Donald lets off a worried squawk Goofy Kairi!
A light erupts from beneath the dark cloud, knocking the Heartless away, revealing Kairi in the arms of Sora Sora Kairi, thank you.
He holds her close as sparkles of light float around them. Kairi opens her eyes in amazement Kairi Sora... Donald & Goofy Sora!
The Heartless around them reappear and everyone braces for a fight. Beast arrives, roaring loudly on top of the dragon fountain. He leaps down to their level and knocks away a Shadow Beast Go! Now! Sora Come with us! Beast I told you before, Im not leaving without Belle. Now, go! The Heartless are coming! Sora All right. Lets get out of here.
They race out of the castle and back to Traverse Town. They gather with Leon, Aerith, and Yuffie in the Small House in the Third District Leon Tell me what happened.
They recount the events of Hollow Bastion Leon So the darkness is flowing out of that Keyhole... Aerith No wonder there are more and more Heartless everywhere. The only way to stop them is Sora (holding up his Keyblade) Seal the Keyhole, right? Leon Maybe. But no one knows what will happen once its sealed. Sora (concerned) Well, we cant just stay here. We have to do something. Ive got a friend back there. Leon Thats right. You have one more friend to worry about. Rikus Keyblade must have been born of the captive princesses heartsjust like that Keyhole you saw.
He looks up at Kairi Leon Of course, without Kairis heart, it remained incomplete. Once that Keyblade was destroyed, the princesses hearts should have been freed. Dont worry, Sora. If anyone can save your friend, you can. Yuffie Not sure why, but the Heartless are getting stronger. New types of Heartless are popping up all over the place! If anything happens to us, I know we can count on you, Sora. Kairi Even in your Heartless form, I knew it was you. Aerith I thought the Keyhole would strength the darkness. I mean the darkness is strong, but still... Its almost as if someone is holding the darkness back. Leon It seems the other princesses have been freed as well. Jasmine apparently hasnt returned to Agrabah. I suspect the others are still in the castle, too.
Sora speaks to Aerith Aerith Do you remember seeing a man with spiky hair at the coliseum? Sora Yup. Aerith I wonder if hes still searching for his friend? Sora. If you see him, please tell him to be careful. Hes not that friendly, but we all care about him dearly.
They find Cid in the First District Sora Cid, I need to go back to Hollow Bastion. Cid I dont think I can let you do that, kid. The Heartless there are multiplying by the minute. Theyd eat your ship up. Sora Then what can we do? Cid Simple. Go around em instead of through. Install a new navigation gummi and take a new route. Sora A new gummi? From where? Cid The secret waterway. When I came here 9 years ago, I stored it there in case I ever needed it. Never thought a kid would be the one to use it!
Sora, Donald, and Goofy enters the Secret Waterway, seeing Kairi there. She stares down the cave to a painting of the sun Kairi What a mysterious mural... Its almost hypnotizing.
Sora walks up to the mural, which starts to glow. It changes into a crescent moon and a small gummi block floats out of it, landing in Soras hands. Sora returns to Kairi Sora Lets go back and join the others. We should rest up Kairi Okay.
She stares at the mural of the moon as Donald and Goofy leave the two alone Kairi A light at the end of the tunnel... Sora Oh, your grandmas story, right? Kairi Thats right. We were together. Sora You know whats funny? I looked everywhere for you, but you were with me all along. Finally, were together, Kairi.
He walks closer to her Sora Now, its time to get Riku back. Kairi You think itll ever be the same again between us? Rikus lost his... Sora When I turned into a Heartless, you saved me, remember?
An image of Sora floats in darkness Sora I was lost in the darkness. I couldnt find my way. As I stumbled through the dark, I started forgetting thingsmy friends, who I was. The darkness almost swallowed me. But then I heard a voiceyour voice. You brought me back. Kairi I didnt want to just forget about you, Sora. I couldnt. Sora Thats it! Our hearts are connected.
He puts a hand to his chest Sora And the light from our hearts broke through the darkness. I saw that light. I think thats what saved me. No matter how deep the darkness, a light shines within. I guess its more than just a fairy tale. Kairi Well, lets go. Sora You cant go. Kairi Why not? Sora Because its way too dangerous.
Kairi stands with her hands behind her back Kairi Come on, Sora. We made it this far by sticking together. You cant go alone. Sora Kairi, even if were apart, were not alone anymore. Right? Kairi I cant help? Sora (chuckling) Youd kind of be in my way.
Kairi giggles Kairi (smiling) Okay. You win.
She grabs his hand and gives him something Kairi Take this.
He looks down, seeing a star-shaped keychain made of seashells Kairi (firmly) Its my lucky charm. Be sure to bring it back to me. Sora Dont worry. I will. Kairi Promise? Sora Promise. Kairi Dont ever forget. Wherever you go, Im always with you.
Words echo down a dark and lonely road Riku Sora... Kairi... Im sorry...
Riku walks alone in the darkness Riku Is this the afterworld?
He stumbles forward and his form shimmers Riku Im not ready. Not yet. Not until I see Sora and Kairi one last time...
He hears a voice in the abyss ????? Riku, can you hear me? Ill be there soon.
He whirls around Riku Who is that? ????? I have the other Keybladethe one that belongs to this world.
Riku looks around, confused ????? Ive been trying to get through to you, but the darkness in your heart kept me away. Riku Who are you? Whats happened to me? ????? Your heart won the battle against the darkness, but it was too late for your body. Thats why youre herein this place of darkness where hearts are gathered. Riku So what do I do?
He looks ahead down the winding road ????? The Door of Darkness will open soon, but its a door we cant enter. It has to be closed from both sides. To do this, you need two keys and two hearts. Maybe youre here for the same reason I am. Maybe it was fate. Riku Fate, huh? You seem to know everything, dont you? Then tell me: Are Sora and Kairi okay?
An image of Sora runs toward him out of the darkness ????? Dont you feel the echoes of their hearts? You already know the answer. Look inside your own heart.
Riku opens his eyes Riku Okay.
Sora, Donald, and Goofy return to the First District and give Cid the navigation gummi Cid You found it? All right, Ill go fix up your ship.
Cid leaves and Sora, Donald, and Goofy decide to visit Merlins Study while he works on the ship. Sora opens Poohs storybook and enters the 100 Acre Wood. He arrives at a clearing crowded with tree stumps, where Tigger and a young kangaroo are practicing their bouncing. Owl flies in overhead as Sora sees a giant honey pot in the center of the clearing. He walks over to the seesaw where Tigger and Roo are bouncing Tigger This here is my bouncin spot! We can bounce around here all day! Roo Nothing beats bouncin! Tigger You wanna bounce, too, Sora? Its lotsa fun! Sora Okay! Owl To bounce with the finest, youll need some pointers from the finest.
Owl decends to the seesaw and lands Roo But, Owl, you dont bounce around like we do! Owl (sighing) Im afraid youre right. I cant master everything, I suppose.
Owl flies away Tigger Bounce this way, please!
He jumps onto a nearby tree stump and Roo follows him. Sora joins them and Tigger faces the course of tree stumps Tigger Heres a little warm-up.
Tigger and Roo hop along the tree stumps to a cliff at the other end of the clearing. Sora follows them in the same pattern before they return to the original stump Tigger Now it gets tricky!
Tigger and Roo bounce along a different pattern, and Sora triumphs again Tigger Youre doin fantastical! Thisll be the last one.
Roo jumps over to the seesaw, followed by Tigger. Roo bounces on his side of the seesaw, sending Tigger up into the tree above them. Tigger bounces from the tree onto the tree stumps and back across to the cliff. Sora repeats the pattern and Tigger bounces with glee Tigger Youve gotten mighty good at bouncin, Sora! Right, Roo? Roo Hey, Tigger! I think hes ready for the big one! Tigger Well, theres only one way to find out!
Tigger bounces in the giant honey pot, tossing nuts at Sora, who whacks them back at the pot, shattering it. Tigger bounces out, laughing. Sora finds Pooh at the base of a hollow tree Pooh This tree doesnt have honey, I see.
He finds Piglet near a wooden plank in the ground Piglet I wonder what this is.
He finds Owl standing near the entrance Owl Rare nuts grow on these trees. Ill trade you things for them.
Sora collects the rare nuts in the area and brings them to Owl Owl Look at all these nuts! We couldnt have done it without you. What are they for? Its a secret.
Sora leaves the 100 Acre Wood and speaks to the Fairy Godmother Fairy Godmother Oh, another summon gem? Lets help this little one. Here we go! Bibbidi-bobbidi-boo!
Sora is granted the power to summon Mushu Fairy Godmother Thank you, Sora. Heres something for you.
She gives Donald an upgraded wand Fairy Godmother Take good care of them.
They return to Cid, whos waiting for them Cid All set! You can get going any time. Kid, I gotta say, I wish you didnt have to face all this danger. Dont get cocky just cause youve been there before. That castles probably crawling with em now...
They enter the gummi ship and are hailed by Chip and Dale on the communicator Chip Theres a new warp hole near Traverse Town. Dale I wonder where it leads... Hmm. Some weird power is emanating from the worlds. Chip Might be worth revisiting some places again.
Sora, Donald, and Goofy travel to the Olympus Coliseum to compete in the Hades Cup. They fight in 39 seeds of the tournament, when Hades appears in the arena Hades Yo, hey, howre you doin everybody, yeah. Got a minute? Hades, Lord of the Dead. Nice to see you. Hey, guess what? I got a place for you down under!
Hades hovers around the arena, shooting fireballs at Sora, Donald, and Goofy. Donald responds with Blizzaga spells, which knock him back Hades Feel the heat...
He turns red, stretching his arms out and sending large torrents of flame out from them. He spins around, trying to hit them. Sora casts an Aero spell on everyone and dodge rolls through the flame. Goofy holds his shield in front of him as Hades slams his arms down sending fire onto him. Sora sends another Blizzaga spell at Hades and he reels back Hades That all youve got?
Hades sends another stream of fire out from his hands, knocking out Donald. Goofy throws his shield, hitting Hades in the head Hades Thats it!
He throws another fireball at Goofy, but Sora dashes in front of him, blocking it with his Keyblade, which sends the fireball straight back at Hades. The god of the Underworld falls unconscious and Sora delivers a string of blows with his Keyblade. He heals Donald and the three of them attack at once as Hades regains consciousness. Hades is sent flying back into the hypogeum. He stands up and shakes in fear Hades Oh! Hey, kid, wh-what are you doing?
He struggles in the darkness as something is set loose on him Hades Stop! Hey, guys! G-Get away from me! Come on! Come on!
The gates of the hypogeum clamp shut as roars are heard from beyond. Later, the final match of the Hades Cup begins as a large stone creature, the Rock Titan, smashes into the arena. Its two heads look down on them with one objective. It moves toward Sora, Donald, and Goofy, towering over them, sending shockwaves through the arena floor. Sora sends his Keyblade through the air, attacking the titans feet. Eventually, it falls on its back, its heads vulnerable to attack. Sora climbs on top of the titan and strikes them with Graviga spells. They try to swing at him and he dodges backward. The Rock Titan stands back up, lifting its arms. It slams them down into the ground, creating an enormous shockwave through the earth. Sora stumbles under the titan as it lifts its strong rocky leg Donald Sora!
Donald sends a Cura spell, healing Sora, and Goofy charges forward at full speed, knocking Sora out of the way of the titans foot as it came crashing down. Goofy falls unconscious as the Rock Titan roars into the air. Sora glares at the creature and feels energy welling up inside him. He strikes its leg, knocking it over once again as Donald pulls Goofy to safety. Sora jumps on top of it and sends out a flurry of attacks until the Rock Titan crumbles. Sora covers his eyes as dust blows everywhere as Goofy is healed. Sora looks around, hearing a rumbling sound as the air grows cold. A large icy hand smashes onto the wall of the arena, shortly followed by another, before the towering Ice Titan rears its ugly head over the wall. Sora backs away slowly and the titan slams its foot down onto the floor of the arena, spreading its icy power along the floor. It roars at them, staring at them through emotionless eyes, blowing icy wind through the air. It begins shooting ice shards at the group, causing Donald to send back Fira spells. Goofy deflects the ice with his shield, forcing the titan to fall to its knees. Sora moves in and delivers a string of blows to the titans head. It roars again and sends a flurry of ice shards at everyone. Donald casts Aerora on the group and Sora sends Fira spells at the monster. It hisses as the ice shards expand larger when hitting the shields of wind surrounding them. An icy mist surrounds Sora and before he could move, he was frozen on the spot. The Ice Titan stomps on the ground, moving closer to him, sending shockwaves through its feet Donald Sora!
He sends a Fira spell at Sora, breaking him out of the ice in time to slam his Keyblade into the foot of the Ice Titan. It clamps its hands onto its head, slowly shrinking, surrounded by a dense cold air. It punches its foot into the ground, but its leg breaks and the ice in the ground dissipates. It stares confused, hearing a set of rumbling sounds. It looks up, seeing Sora towering over him, and reels back in fear. Sora moves to step on it, but it falls over just in time to miss his giant foot. The creature runs away, trailing dust, and jumps through the gate at the end of the arena. The three celebrate as Hades grumbles behind the gate of the hypogeum. Donald jumps up, sending a Blizzaga spell at Hadess hair, blowing out the flame much to the gods surprise. Sora holds the Hades Cup trophy and looks over to a smiling Hercules as Phil laughs proudly. Later, they travel back to Hollow Bastion by a new route and disembark at the Rising Falls, where Beast waits for them Sora Wheres Belle? Beast Still in the castle. Goofy Against her will? Beast No, I think she stayed for a reason. The other princesses are inside as well. Donald I wonder why? Sora Lets go ask them. Beast You may need my strength. Ill go with you.
They make their way up to the castle. They enter the library and Beast walks slowly up the stairs. Belle turns away from a bookcase to face him and his eyes light up Beast Belle!
They walk over to each other and embrace. Sora, Donald, and Goofy join them Belle Youve come to seal the Keyhole, right? Please, be careful. The darkness is raging deep inside. Weve been holding it back, but we cant hold out much longer. Sora Well take care of it. Belle This is for you. Use it to face the darkness, as the Beast has.
She hands him a rose-shaped Keychain Belle So many books, but not one on how to banish the darkness. Maybe its hopeless...
They continue on to the Castle Chapel, where the rest of the princesses of heart are gathered. They talk to Aurora and Cinderella Cinderella Weve been waiting for you, Keyblade master. Sora Wheres Ansem? Cinderella Gone. Aurora When the Keyhole appeared, darkness poured out of it. It swallowed Ansem, and he disappeared. Cinderella Though Ansem is gone, the flood of darkness hasnt stopped. Were working together to hold it back. Aurora I cannot forget the look on his face. As the darkness engulfed him, he was smiling.
They talk to Jasmine, Alice, and Snow White Jasmine Sora, please hurry! Darkness is pouring from the Keyhole. Alice Its all we can do just to hold back the darkness. Snow White I dont even know how long we can manage even that. Sora All right, Im on my way. Snow White Were counting on you, Keyblade master. In the meantime, well do what we can, too. Aurora Ansem has ignored us since the Keyhole appeared. Cinderella I dont think Ansem will ever return. Alice We must close the Keyhole before its too late. Jasmine Can you feel the immense power flowing from that Keyhole? Snow White Please hurry. Our strength is running out.
Sora, Donald, Goofy and Beast battle Heartless through the Grand Hall and enter the Dark Depths to find the Keyhole. They run in and find themselves face-to-face with an enormous Behemoth Heartless. They subdue the giant horned enemy by destroying its horn. It disappears and they see a large Heartless insignia in the abyss with a Keyhole embedded in it Goofy Now lets go and seal that big Keyhole! ???? Sora. You did it.
They turn around and leave the Dark Depths to find the source of the voice. In the Grand Hall, they see Leon, Yuffie, and Aerith Sora What are you guys doing here? Yuffie We came in Cids ship. Aerith This is our childhood home. We wanted to see it again. Leon Its in worse shape than I feared. It used to be so peaceful... Aerith Dont worry. If we defeat Ansem, all should be restored. Including your island. Sora Really? Yuffie But, it also means goodbye. Aerith Once the worlds are restored, theyll all be separate again. Yuffie Everyone will go back to where they came from. Sora Then Ill visit you guys with the gummi ship. Leon (crossing his arms) Its not that simple. Yuffie Before all this, you didnt know about the other worlds, right? Aerith Because every world was isolated. Impassable walls divided them. Yuffie The Heartless destroyed those walls. But if the worlds return, so will the walls. Leon Which means gummi ships will be useless. Sora So youre saying well never...?
Their faces become sad Leon We may never meet again, but well never forget each other. Aerith No matter where we are, our hearts will bring us together again. Yuffie Besides, I couldnt forget you even if I wanted to. Sora Whats that supposed to mean? Donald Sora!
Sora looks to Donald and Goofy near the Dark Depths, where darkness is pouring out Goofy Hurry! Come and close the Keyhole! Leon Sora, good luck.
Sora nods to him and runs back to Donald and Goofy. They approach the final glowing Keyhole and Sora locks it. The Heartless symbol disappears. They meet back up with the princesses in the chapel Alice Thank you, Sora. I think the darkness has begun to weaken. Jasmine But I can feel a powerful darkness growing somewhere far away. Aurora Its the heart of the darkness. It must be where Ansem went. Sora Then well take the gummi ship and deal with both Ansem and the Heartless. Cinderella A worthy answer, Keyblade master. We offer this power to aid your battle.
Cinderella upgrades Soras Fira spell Snow White Sora, your courage can bring back our worlds. Aurora Once the darkness is gone, all should return to its original state. Sora Kairi will be back on the island? Cinderella Most certainly. And you should be, too. Sora I cant go home til I find Riku and the king. Cinderella I still cant believe we played a part in opening the Keyhole. To think we had such a power... Simply unimaginable! My world is gone, so I suppose I must stay here for the time being. Alice The darkness still lingers, so well stay as well. Otherwise, this world will be destroyed, too. Well do all we can. You helped me during that silly trial. Now its my turn to help you. Aurora Maleficent used to live in our world. She used her great powers to control the darkness... But eventually it came to control her. Im so glad the others are here with me. Snow Whtie The darkness took my home. I dont know where to go now. I hope my loved ones are safe somewhere. Ill do whatever I can to keep this world from being taken, too. I just want everything back as it was before. Jasmine Please dont tell Aladdin about all this. He will worry to death if you do! I will tell him about it, once I return to Agrabah. I hope everything is all right in Agrabah.
Sora and company return to the Library and speak to Aerith Aerith Sora, you should read this. Sora Read what? Aerith Its the rest of Ansems report. Maleficent must have collected it.
She hands him the report Aerith Ansem disappeared when this world fell to the darkness. It was believed he died defending people from the Heartless. But Ansem was the one who brought them here. Ansem waits in darkness. But heres a little light to protect you, Sora.
She upgrades his healing spell Aerith Read that report and youll understand Ansems intentions. I believe the worlds can be restored. They are still alive.
They speak to Leon and Yuffie Yuffie Ansem and Maleficent were both possessed by darkness. You know, I just dont get it. Whats so great about the darkness? Leon This was once Ansems castle. He was widely respected as a wise man. But darkness took him. He began experimenting with peoples hearts. Heh, some wise man. So much suffering and ruin, and for what? Yuffie This is my home, but it just doesnt feel like it. I dont remember much, cause I was only a kid. Leon We thought this was Maleficents doing. But she was just another puppet of the darkness. Just like Ansem. This darkness is our real enemy. But how to beat it? Well, first things first. Lets purge every last Heartless we can find. Yuffie There are no Heartless here, so rest up. Weve gotta get rid of the Heartless and rebuild this world. Leon I wont use my real name until this world is restored.
They speak to Belle Belle Ansem desires the darkness. He thinks its the source of all power. What nonsense. Darkness may shroud light, but it can never extinguish it. Sora, dont succumb to the darkness. You and the Keyblade can defeat it.
Sora, Donald, and Goofy return to the Olympus Coliseum, where a special enemy has appeared. Sora runs into the arena, looking around. A large portal appears in the sky, sending a beam down to the ground. Through the brightness, Sora could see a man with long silver hair. The man stands up slowly, a wing protruding from right side of his back. He stretches out his arm and the wing follows suit. Sora stares as Sephiroth faces him, smiling through sinister eyes. He slowly places a hand on the elongated nodachi sheathed at his hip. He stands far from Sora, but as he unsheathes the sword, he strikes Sora from afar. Sora rushes him and attacks, before dodging away as the mans range overtakes him. Sephiroth conjures pillars of flame around him, but Sora jumps away nearly scorched. Dozens of dark orbs surround the man, making it harder for Sora to strike at him. He sends a Firaga spell, taking out some of them, before sending down lightning bolts with Thundaga. Sephiroth leaps into the air and slashes at Sora in quick succession. He lands on the ground and glows with a white aura as several meteors crash down from the sky around him. Sora concentrates and flies into the air as the meteors orbit around the man. Sora stays in the air out of the way of the rocks. A black hole spins above Sephiroths head, absorbing the meteors and the man begins teleporting around striking Sora and retreating. While a good distance away from Sora, Sephiroth floats into the air chanting, but before he finishes, Sora tosses his Keyblade at him, knocking him to the ground. He stumbles back, clutching his stomach. He stares at Sora and floats into the air. He stretches out his arms as a light erupts from him. The air around him ripples and the mysterious man disappears. Later, Cloud walks into the Coliseum arena with his buster sword out, a serious look on his face. He stops, seeing a blue feather fall from the sky. As the feather lands, Cloud looks up, his eyes making contact with Sephiroth. They stare each other down, neither making a move Cloud Ive been looking for you. Sephiroth As have I. Cloud As long as you exist, Ill never wake from this nightmare. Youre my darkness. Sephiroth (extending his arms) Im a part of you, am I? Then join me in this eternal nightmare untarnished by light.
Cloud brandishes his sword and Sephiroth closes his eyes, slowly grasping his blade. The tension in the air rises as electricity crackles around the two opponents, sending dirt into the air. Suddenly, they charge and their swords clash violently, their single wings extending and sending them airborne. They trade blows over and over, neither side gaining the upper hand. They split apart and Cloud charges, this time pushing Sephiroth back. Before his blade hits him, Sephiroth teleports away, leaving only feathers. Cloud looks up, glaring at Sephiroth who extends a hand to him. He smiles, only angering Cloud further, and the two soldiers clash swords, sending out a white hot light through the sky. At this time, a portal appears in the Castle Chapel at Hollow Bastion, alerting the princesses to its presence Cinderella Could the appearance of that gate be a bad omen? Snow White Theres an ominous presence beyond the gate. Alice What is this feeling? Its different from darkness... Be careful, Sora! Aurora I sense a presence coming from that gate... But its not darkness. Its another power altogether. It may be even more dangerous than darkness. Jasmine We could suppress the power if it were darkness. But this is different. Its a force unlike darkness... A force different from both the light and the darkness.
Sora, Donald, Goofy, and Beast enter the portal, finding themselves in the room where Maleficent was defeated. An invisible figure shimmers in the air behind them, walking closer towards Sora, who turns and gasps as a man in a black cloak walks right through him. The world freezes and memories flash through Soras mind in rapid succession No problem. Lets do it! Hold on! Whats that over there? She arrived on the night of the meteor shower! A huge black thing swallowed me up. So, youre from another world? A paopu fruit... What? Theres no way youre getting this! Im so glad that youre okay, Kairi. The Keyblade... The Heartless? I wonder if I could find Riku and Kairi... Anyway, shes not the one youre looking for. Thats the power of the Keyblade! Now I finally know what you mean about strength of heart. Right, my friends! Sorry about what I said. Guess you dont get out much, huh? I promise. Youre stupid. Sooner or later theyll swallow your heart. Ive finally found her. I still cant believe it. I know this place... No. Not without Kairi. I know now I dont need a Keyblade. I dont need a weapon. My friends are my power! Give him back his heart! Theres no way youre taking Kairis heart! A Keyblade that unlocks peoples hearts... I wonder. Whats... Whats happening to me? Falling...falling...into darkness. Kairi, thank you. Now, its time to get Riku back. Even if were apart, were not alone anymore. Dont worry. I will. Promise.
Sora falls to the cold stone floor, turning to see the cloaked figure stop Sora (standing) Who are you? ?????? Ah, it seems you are special, too. Goofy Ansem? ?????? That name rings familiar.
An orb of energy erupts from his hand, crackling strongly, causing the air to ripple ?????? You remind me of him. Sora Whats that supposed to mean?
He gasps as the enigmatic man moves to aim the orb at him, and Sora summons his Keyblade. He holds it up just as the energy reaches the blade. It sizzles in the air, dissipated by the blade, sparks flying everywhere. Sora pushes it away, sending the orb soaring into the rafters of the tower, raining down mortar and stone. The man stares at Sora, fascinated by him ?????? It means you are not whole.
Sora grips the Keyblade tightly ?????? You are incomplete. Allow meto test your strength.
The hooded figure conjures orbs of energy in both hands and flies at them in a flurry of darkness, the orbs exploding into giant damaging force fields, knocking Sora and his friends back. Sora slides back at the man and strikes, while Donald sends magic from a safe distance. The figure then teleports around the room, his speed increasing, surrounded by a dark cloud. The man summons red ethereal blades from his hands and spins closer to Sora, trying to strike him wild and violently. After a few more strikes, the man conjures a ring of blue lasers in the air, firing them towards Sora. He shrouds the room in darkness, sending out lasers from all around his body, nearly finishing off Goofy and the Beast. After forcefully dodging a numerous amount of attacks and countering with his own, the mans chest glows with energy. He slashes out his hand and dispels it ?????? Impressive.
Soras eyes widen, surprised that the man is still standing ?????? This will be enjoyable. Sora What are you talking about?
Sora rushes the man and plants a foot on the ground, pushing off and into the air. Raising his Keyblade, the man walks forward through him and the world freezes for a second. Sora lands on the other side of the man, who simply stands there. Sora whirls around, scowling ?????? It is beyond your comprehension, for now.
The man turns in Soras direction ?????? Until we meet again. Sora Wait, what are you
The mysterious mans form flickers in the air, startling Sora ?????? I am
Sora walks closer, and the man vanishes, the air rippling in his wake ?????? ...but a mere shell.
Sora, Donald, and Goofy return to Traverse Town to return the last group of Dalmatian puppies they found along their travels. They enter the Dalmatians House. A puppy runs up to Pongo and Perdita, looking much jollier than when Sora saw them last. It barks happily up at them. Sora enters the Living Room, seeing numerous puppies scattered around stretching, yawning, and playing. Pongo walks up to him and gives him a present. Perdita joins him and a puppy barks at their feet. In the Piano Room, dozens of puppies play on the piano, as more lay happily on the couch in the Den. Several run along the floor as Sora enters, and a bunch of them gather around him as he scratches his head. Pongo looks over at Perdita and then happily back at their 99 puppies safe and sound. Afterwards, they leave for Merlins Study. Sora enters the 100 Acre Wood, arriving a a winding, muddy path. He finds Pooh, wandering in circles around a bramble bush, his footprints trailing him in the mud Sora What are you doing, Pooh? Pooh (pressing a finger to his lips) Shh. Quiet, or theyll get away! Sora Who? Pooh The people who took everyone away. See their footprints? We were all sticking together to make sure no one got lost again. But then, I saw some footprints that needed following. So I did. Suddenly, everyone was gone. Bad people must have taken them away! Sora Actually, Pooh, I think those footprints are... Um... Anyway, Ill help you look for your friends.
He taps a fist against his chest proudly. Sora walks into the bramble bush, finding Eeyore Sora Eeyore? Eeyore Hello. Sora What are you doing? Eeyore Lookin for sticks to build my house...again. Sora Sticks for your house?
He looks around Sora This place already feels like a house... Seems like a great spot to gather everyone once we find them.
Sora leads Pooh around the muddy path, looking for his friends. Sora jumps on top of a well with a blustery wind surging from it. It lifts him into the air and tosses him to the top of the cliff. At the top, he sees Tigger bouncing along a log Tigger I saw Pooh walkin away, so I bounced after him! Then I bounced a bit too high, and I lost sight of ol Pooh Bear!
Sora brings Tigger back to the bramble bush. Sora sees Roo on top of a tree root, and he hops down to Sora Roo I tried bouncin as high as Tigger. I was so busy tryin to bounce, I forgot to watch where I was bouncin!
Sora leads Roo back to the bush to join the others. Sora climbs the cliff again and finds Piglet hiding under a tree Sora Hello, Piglet. So this is where youve been. Maybe I should bring Pooh along.
Owl lands nearby and Sora catches him before he takes off again Owl I thought Id better have a word with Roo about his bouncing. The next thing I knew, quite to my surprise, I was lost, too!
Sora returns Owl to the bush and leads Pooh to a patch of flowers. Pooh grabs them and they lure a group of butterflies, which carry him up to the top of the cliff. Sora sees Rabbit running in and out of holes in a cliff nearby Rabbit Owl looked so intent on something, well, I just had to follow him! But then Owl flew off into the sky, and there I was, all by myself.
They take Rabbit to the bramble bush. Sora leads Pooh over the log to the cliff on the other side, knocking down a bees nest in the way, and up to the tree where Piglet is hiding. Pooh walks under the tree and talks to Piglet Pooh Hello, Piglet. Piglet Pooh! Where are we? Pooh I dont know where we are either, Piglet. But if we go back the way we came, we should find home.
Piglet appears in a hole at the bottom of the cliff Piglet I got scared when everyone disappeared, so I hid.
Sora leads Piglet into the bramble bush, and he trips over Eeyores foot. Pooh walks over Pooh Everyones here!
They walk to the Starry Hill as it gets darker out Piglet Im so glad were all together again.
He laughs Piglet I didnt know what to do when I was all alone. Tigger Aw, Piglet, you gotta be brave. Piglet You werent lonely at all? Tigger Lonely? Are you kiddin? Im a Tigger! The most wonderful thing about Tiggers is Im the only one. But I do admit, friends are awfully fun, too! Pooh Think, think, think.
Sora looks over at Pooh, who taps his head Sora Hey, Pooh, what are you thinking about now? Pooh Oh, well, Im just thinking about what to think about. Sora Well, Im off.
He looks up at the stars Piglet Sora, where are you going?
Sora stands up and walks to the edge of the hill Sora Im gonna go look for my friends. Theyre waiting for me.
He looks back at them Tigger (happily) Bounce on back again! Piglet I hope you find your friends!
Sora jumps off the hill and walks down the path. Pooh and his friends move to the edge of the cliff and watches him walk off. He stops and jabs his fist into the air, before looking back at them. They wave to him Pooh Sora, dont forget... We shall always be here.
Sora leaves the 100 Acre Wood Pooh If youd like to visit again, that is.
Magic shoots across the night sky and the book closes. Sora is now on the cover, holding hands with Pooh and Piglet as Tigger bounces along with them. The books latch closes and its Keyhole locks. Later, Sora sees Owl at Poohs house Owl Youve been a great help, Sora. Thank you! You helped Pooh get honey from the bees. You helped protect Rabbits carrots. You helped find Eeyores lost tail. You bounced along with Tigger and Roo. And you found all of us when we were lost. We cant thank you enough. This is from all of us in the Hundred Acre Wood.
He gives Sora an ability. Sora, Donald, and Goofy finally pilot the gummi ship to the End of the World. The disembark at the Gate to the Dark, a cave near fragments of dense snowy rocks floating in a pool of an unknown substance. A swirl of energy lights their destination Goofy Gawrsh, is that all thats left of the worlds taken by the Heartless? Sora Those worlds will be restored if we beat Ansem, right? Donald You betcha. Sora But, if we do beat him and all these worlds become restored and disconnected, whats gonna happen to this place? And to us? Donald Well, uh... Goofy This is a Heartless world, so maybe itll just disappear.
Sora and Donald look back at him Sora & Donald Huh?! Goofy (hopeful) But no worries. Even if this place goes poof, our hearts aint goin nowhere. Im sure well find our pals again. Yup, I just know that we will.
Donald nods in agreement Sora (nodding) Yeah, youre right.
He takes out Kairis wayfinder and stares at it, holding it tight Sora thinking Ill return this. I promise.
They proceed forward over the bizarre terrain. As they approach the swirling mist, a large dark orb falls from the sky, unclouding their vision. They are attacked by a Behemoth Heartless and find themselves in a wasteland of snow and crystal. Upon defeating the Behemoth, they drop into a Giant Crevasse filled with green web-like structures and crystals scattered throughout Goofy I wonder where that Ansem feller went? Donald Dive into the most dangerous place and well find him!
At the bottom of the crevasse, they find a portal to a sharply formed cave with a flaming pillar burning in the center. They jump into the enchanted flame and find themselves in a long tiled hallway with a large Heartless insignia at the end of it. They defeat the Heartless that appear around them and a door opens in the wall, leading to a room with a mysterious device. On the panel of the device a message is written Ones born of the heart and darkness, devoid of hearts, ravage all worlds and bring desolation. Seize all hearts and consummate the great heart. All hearts to be one, one heart to encompass all. Realize the destiny: the realm of Kingdom Hearts. The great darkness sealed within the great heart. Progeny of darkness, come back to the eternal darkness. For the heart of light shall unseal the path. Seven hearts, one Keyhole, one key to the door. The door of darkness, tied by two keys. The door of darkness to seal the light. None shall pass but shadows, returning to the darkness. Ones born of the heart and darkness, hunger for every heart until the dark door opens.
They return to the hallway and jump into the dark portal in the wall. Returning to the stark cave, the pillar of flame has become a swirling hole in the floor. They enter the hole and arrive in the Evil Grounds, where they float through the dark air. Beneath them is a curved figure with two giant wings. As they hover closer to it, its glowing eyes open and it spreads its wings out, stretching up to its full height. The demon Chernabog crosses its arms and showers them with its evil gaze. It stands in the caldera of a volcano, fire coursing through its veins. They fly towards the beasts head and begin attacking It. It swipes a mighty claw at them, tossing them away before hunching over. They glide back to the demon and it raises its arms, roaring loudly as an enormous torrent of flames washes over them from the volcano, swirling voraciously around Chernabog. Donald sends a Blizzaga spell at the beast and it begins to spew fire from its mouth. They fly behind it and attack its neck, dodging another wall of fire. It knocks them away again and holds out its arms, spinning them in the air. Spirits appear, dancing near the end of its fingers, and it sends them after the trio. Donald casts Aeroga on everyone as they fly back into the fray, dodging the attacking spirits. After tussling with the dark demon, it roars and bursts into a pillar of white hot flames, flapping its huge wings for a final time before sinking into the volcano and vanishing. Sora, Donald, and Goofy float down through the crater where they find a white portal. They enter it and find themselves in a long tunnel filled with ruins. Dark vines line the walls, a grove of round trees in one corner and stone debris in another. They enter a second white portal and reach another corridor. Shadows of wicked trees cover the walls, their evil faces seemingly watching them as they traverse the somewhat darker tunnel. An image of a small door is etched in the wall. They enter another portal to another tunnel, the most hollow of all. The image of a castle is displayed on the wall, the entire cavern giving them an bleak feeling. They reach a large room with a Heartless symbol placed in the wall. A Behemoth appears, but they defeat it and walk over to the symbol. A piece breaks off and disappears. They defeat an almost endless horde of Heartless, with the pieces of the emblem deteriorating as they battle. Soon, the emblem shines and reveals a hidden room. They step into the sandy chamber, dust falling through holes in the walls. They see a large ornate door and something stirs in Soras memory Sora Huh? Donald Whats wrong? Sora Dont you hear something? There! Voice Careful. This is the last haven youll find here. Beyond, there is no light to protect you. But dont be afraid. Your heart is the mightiest weapon of all. Remember, you are the one who will open the door to the light. Donald I dont hear anything. Sora Strange... That voice was so familiar. Maybe its just my imagination. Donald Maybe youd better take a rest!
Sora steps forward and the doors open. From beyond, light streams in and engulfs the room. Soras eyes open to see a bright sandy beach where the clouds billow in the sky. The waves lap at the shore and he stands there in disbelief Sora Is this... Is this my island?
They approach the Secret Place, when they hear a voice dripping with darkness Ansem This world has been connected.
The small island off the beach disappears Goofy What was that? Ansem Tied to the darkness... Soon to be completely eclipsed.
The wooden area past the long bridge vanishes into thin air Ansem There is so very much to learn.
The ocean froths, turns a dark violet color Ansem You understand so little.
The island starts to rumble and quake Ansem A meaningless effort. One who knows nothing can understand nothing.
The island flashes and the sky rips open, shattering the peaceful illusion. Beyond the gashing tears is a dark, mad world. The beach crumbles and lifts out of the water, revealing its rocky undergrowth as what once was a dock splits in two. Ansem stands at the edge of the water, still in possession of Rikus body. They run down to the beach where he stands motionless, staring out at the sea Ansem Take a look at this tiny place. To the heart seeking freedom this is a prison surrounded by water. And so this boy sought out to escape from his prison.
He raises his arms, looking upward, the wind gusting through his hair and clothes Ansem He sought a way to cross over into other worlds. And he opened his heart to darkness.
Ansem turns and Rikus body melts away, revealing the true form of the man, the Heartless symbol emblazoned on his chest Sora (reaching out to him) Riku! Ansem Dont bother. Your voice can no longer reach him where he is. His heart belongs again to darkness. All worlds begin in darkness, and all so end. The heart is no different.
His voice amplifies in volume and audacity as he continues Ansem Darkness sprouts within it, it grows, consumes it. Such is its nature. In the end, every heart returns to the darkness whence it came.
They hear his voice behind them and whirl around as he speaks, having teleported. Sora jumps back Ansem You see, darkness is the hearts true essence. Sora Thats not true! The heart may be weak. And sometimes it may even give in. But Ive learned that deep down, theres a light that never goes out!
Ansem rises into the air, crossing his arms. He stares down at them through piercing orange eyes Ansem So, you have come this far and still you understand nothing. Every light must fade, every heart return to darkness!
Behind him, darkness bursts from his body, forming into a large black Heartless with long antennae. It's teeth are bared, seemingly covered in thick constraints, while its torso forms an empty heart. Ansem laughs and the Heartless throws scythes of energy at them. Sora dodges them, rolling to the side as Ansem floats above them. Sora moves in, striking the man Ansem Come, Guardian!
The Heartless swoops in front of him, taking the blows from Soras Keyblade. Donald casts Thundaga and Graviga at Ansem, but the man just laughs at him. Ansem floats down to them and the Guardian swipes at them with a large hand. The fight continues until Ansem flies toward the large tree on the island, which starts to rumble. The branches shake violently as the tree is rent asunder, splitting into a corrupt area of vine and sinew. Ansem waits inside with the Guardian. Sora, Donald, and Goofy run up to the area, but Donald and Goofy are blocked by a barrier. The island shakes and the great black shape of Darkside rises from the floor, its wings stretching out behind it. Sora fights and defeats the giant Heartless, prompting Ansem to emerge from the shadows Ansem Submit!
The Guardian claws at Sora, turning into energy and latching onto Sora. Sora approaches Ansem, who bursts into a giant orb of energy, electricity crackling around it Ansem Come. Open your heart...
The orb slams into Sora, who falls back. He tries to strike Ansem, but the Guardian freezes him in place. Sora maintains his distance until the Guardian returns to Ansems side. Ansem shouts and the Guardian swings its arms, sending waves of energy at Sora, who rolls away from them. Ansem glows with a bright aura and the room grows dark) Ansem My strength returns.
(The Guardian sinks into the ground and a pool of darkness appears underneath Sora. Sora looks down as the Guardian flies up at him, knocking him over. Sora dodges to his feet and jumps in the air. He flies forward as the Guardian continues its assault. As soon as it returns to Ansems side, Sora whirls around and runs straight at the man, striking him with the Keyblade. Ansem tries to hide behind his Guardian, but Sora predicts this, and with a spinning motion, slams the Keyblade into Ansems back. Ansem says nothing, and the world goes black Sora Wha...?
Staring through darkness, Sora, Donald, and Goofy float in midair Ansem Behold the endless abyss! Within it lies the heart of all worlds:
They look over and see a torn rock through the blackness, where an immense white door stands closed Ansem Kingdom Hearts! Look as hard as you are able. Youll not find even the smallest glimmer of light. From those dark depths are all hearts born. Even yours.
They look down to see the colossal mass that is the World of Chaos, covered in muscle, bone, and sinew. At the top, Ansem hovers, connected by veins to the World of Chaos, as the Guardian grins behind him, his giant claws hanging at his sides. Both of them have grown larger and Ansem, less human Ansem Darkness conquers all worlds!
With this sight having struck fear into their hearts, Sora, Donald, and Goofy begin to fall towards it, a portal appearing above the cage- like middle of the battleship. Donald and Goofy scream as they plunge inside it, while Sora falls into the black abyss. Rikus words appear in his head Riku Giving up already? Come on, Sora. I thought you were stronger than that.
This calms his mind and he believes in himself again. He believes that he can defeat Ansem. He believes... And suddenly, he shoots back out of the darkness, flying up towards Ansem, and takes out the Keyblade, an unwavering look upon his face. Ansem stares at him with red-orange eyes, haunting, pupil-less in form, as he holds a double-edged pole sword in his hand. Sora flies forward, striking Ansem with the Keyblade Ansem Turn to darkness!
He swings the pole sword around in wild circles, striking Sora in the side Ansem All shall be extinguished. (Orbs appear around Sora, and before he has a chance to duck, he is hit by a cluster of lasers. Sora flies downward away from them, but also away from Ansem) Ansem Come forth.
Ansem swings his hand, summoning Bit Sniper Heartless, which fly after Sora, their bat-like wings flapping in the air. They try to sideswipe him, but are met with the Keyblade and disappear. Dodging more lasers, he heals and casts a barrier of air around him, flying back to Ansem to finish this once and for all. To Soras surprise, he dispels his sword and crosses his arms over his body. A large Heartless insignia appears over him, blocking him from all attack. The portal over the cage reappears and Sora flies into it, finding himself in pitch black room. He is confronted by a horde of Shadow Heartless, the only light coming from the Heartless emblem on the floor and their eerie glowing eyes. As he destroys the Shadows, a long thread appears in the middle of the room, glowing with dark energy. Sora strikes at the Room Core, which explodes, sending Sora back to the World of Chaos. The Guardian stares down at him, though Ansem doesnt make a move. On the front of the living battleship, the fleshy artillery begins to shoot homing beams of energy at him and another portal appears above them in front of the Guardian. The artillery wiggle at the expellant force as Sora flies nearer to the portal. He is nearly overwhelmed by the artillery and as he closes in on the portal, the Guardian slams his great claws forward, creating a roaring gust of wind, sending Sora toppling away. He is again assaulted by laser-emitting orbs, but he quickly dodges in midair and flies back to the artillery. After destroying the armaments, he soars into the portal of darkness, finding himself in another dark room filled with Darkball Heartless Goofy Sora!
Sora finds Goofy in the room as well and they take down the Darkballs and the following Room Core. They fly back into the World of Chaos, where the hugely-fanged Face at the front of the battleship opens its gaping maw, staring at them through horrid yellow eyes. They strike at the Face, which clenches its teeth, sending bolts of lightning at them. It rears its head back as they attack and opens its mouth, sending an explosion of energy around them while its eyes glow. Taking the final blow, it roars and its head falls limp, the mouth opening. Another portal of darkness appears inside its jaw as more artillery appear on the front armaments of the battleship. Sora and Goofy fly into the portal, reaching another dark room filled with Invisible Heartless Donald Sora!
The Invisibles spin around, sending orbs of darkness around the room. Donald runs toward their voices as the three of the fight off the countless horde. Sora destroys the final Room Core and they escape the room through the portal. They fly back out of the mouth of the Face, which brims with smoke and explodes, leaving a dark blue wound on the front of the World of Chaos. The barrier to the cage in the battleships center collapses and they fly inside the cage, where they find the Main Core surrounded by artillery. They attack the Main Core as the artillery strike back Sora Give me strength!
He glows with a golden aura, raising his Keyblade into the air as three orbs descend to meet it. He touches them with the Keyblade and they gather, forming a three ringed orb. Sora jumps upside down, thrusting the Keyblade into the flesh of the cage. He spins around, holding the grip of the blade as a bright symbol appears around him. Beams erupt from the circles in the symbol and the orb above and the world is enveloped in light. The Main Core crackles with energy as the light fades. Energy catches its grip and it explodes. The Heartless Emblem above Ansems body shatters and Ansem slides forward, his silver hair trailing behind him. Straightening up, he crosses his hands and his pole sword reappears as he glares at Sora, Donald, and Goofy Donald (yelling) Let me at him! Goofy Come on!
Sora, Donald, and Goofy combine efforts in their final assault against Ansem. As they strike on him with all their might, Ansem raises his arms, his mind on one thing Ansem Come...darkness!
A huge orb of darkness forms in his hands and he shoots it forward into the abyss. Pointing his sword at it Ansem Now...you weak-hearted fools...witness real power!
An immense swirling black hole forms in the orbs wake. Electricity hisses inside it and the void begins shooting meteors of glowing energy at the three of them Ansem Now show me what your precious light can do.
They find themselves drifting towards it uncontrollably, and push themselves to fly away from it. Ansem grows tired of this and raises his arms, causing the void to explode Ansem Still confused? Then perhaps this will enlighten you!
Ansems sword vanishes and he crosses his arms, sending several small translucent orbs into the air. They merge with the Guardian in various places, glowing darkly. Laser-emitting orbs return as Sora feels his magic draining from him Ansem Welcome the darkness into your heart.
The battle continues until the World of Chaos begins to burst from the inside Ansem (faintly) Is this the answer? I cant be...
The Guardian roars as it implodes, the veins connecting Ansem to the battleship shake violently and he hangs forward, dropping his sword. Ansem convulses as the World of Chaos is enveloped by a glowing light. Forming a gigantic orb, it explodes, its energy scattering through the abyss. Sora, Donald, and Goofy stare down at Ansem, who floats before them, twitching. The door to Kingdom Hearts waits behind him Ansem It is futile. The Keyblade alone cannot seal the door to darkness.
He whirls around, reaching out towards the door, gazing madly as a man possessed Ansem Kingdom Hearts! Fill me with the power of darkness...
His hand trembles as he struggles to recite the words. The great door opens, tongues of darkness emanating from beyond its cold white stone. Ansem floats higher in the air, his robes billowing out behind him Ansem Supreme darkness... Sora Youre wrong. I know now, without a doubt, Kingdom Hearts... is light!
Without warning, a blinding light bursts from beyond the door, causing Ansem to cover his eyes. It penetrates his being, sending his mind reeling Ansem Light...
He struggles to exist, frozen in place Ansem But... Why...
Light erupts from his body, sending crystals bursting from his chest. His arms are thrown apart as the light consumes everything. Sora, Donald, and Goofy fly over to the door and land on the white sand. They race over to the door Sora Come on!
He plants his hands on one of the double doors and begins to push, as Goofy and Donald do the same with the other. Goofy peers through them and gasps Donald Stop staring and keep pushing!
Donald looks through it as well, his eyes widening Donald Huh?!
In the dark realm beyond, Heartless converge by the thousands, pulsing with darkness and heading towards the door Donald & Goofy The Heartless!? Donald Hurry!
Sora continues to push, but the enormous door hardly budges Sora I cant...
A hand appears from beyond the door Riku Dont give up!
Sora looks up in amazement to see Riku Riku Come on, Sora! Together, we can do it! Sora Okay!
He continues pushing the door closed as Riku pulls from the other side. The door slowly begins to close as stronger and stronger Heartless appear in the dark realm Donald Its hopeless!
From the dark realm, the Darkside Heartless are destroyed by an unknown figure Donald & Goofy Huh?
Jumping into view with light shining behind him in the distance, his silhouette is unmistakable Donald & Goofy Your Majesty!
King Mickey takes out a Keyblade with golden blade and silver handle, raising it into the air Mickey Now, Sora! Lets close this door for good! Donald Close it, quick! Sora But... Mickey Dont worry. There will always be a door to the light. Goofy Sora, you can trust King Mickey. Riku (whirling around towards Mickey) Now! Theyre coming!
Mickey turns to look at them Mickey (sincerely) Donald, Goofy, thank you.
Sora, Donald, and Goofy push with all their might and the doors start to close. Just before they do, Riku looks back at Sora Riku Take care of her.
Sora nods, the penitent face of Riku his final sight before the door shuts. Sora leaps back and holds the Keyblade into the air, light forming at its tip gathering energy. Mickey swings his Keyblade around, releasing magical dust, and raises it into the air. The door begins to glow brightly and soon disappears, revealing a long winding pathway behind it. Sora, Donald, and Goofy stand still gazing into the void left in the doors wake. Soras thoughts drift to Riku and their life on the Destiny Islands. When they talked for hours on the dock. When they gazed out at the sea from the paopu tree. When they used to play fight or race along the beach, laughing at each other. Life was a much simpler time then, before the Heartless. When it was just Sora, Riku and... Sora feels a presence behind him and turns, seeing Kairi at the edge of the world staring around in confusion. Sora runs towards her as fast as he can. Donald starts to follow, but Goofy stops him as a light appears behind them. They stare off in Soras direction as he runs toward the only thing on his mind. Kairi takes a few steps backward, her shoes digging into the soft sand on the tiny piece of beach she appeared on. It seems to be floating off the floating island into the abyss. Kairi looks up, her eyes catching Sora Sora Kairi!
Sora runs up to her Kairi Sora!
She steps closer and the two worlds shake, separating from each other. Kairi shrieks as Sora catches her fall. They stare into each others eyes) Sora Kairi, remember what you said before? Im always with you, too.
(As the worlds continue to drift apart, they hold hands, leaning forward to reach toward one another Sora Ill come back to you. I promise! Kairi I know you will!
Their hands part and Kairi drifts away from Sora, who reaches out to her. She folds her hands together as they continue to stare back, when a small point of light floats down into Kairis hands. She looks up and the sky is filled with tiny points of light, the essence of worlds. They float down around the both of them as the Destiny Islands begin to reassemble around Kairi. Trees burst through the ground as the wooden platforms at the beach reform to the way they used to be. Kairi watches as the ocean rolls in. Sora smiles and calls out to Kairi as the world barrier forms, finally separating the two of them. Kairi looks down to the water as the light around Sora falls back. She looks up suddenly as the light bursts into shooting stars which fly into the sky, reclaiming their proper places. As the worlds are restored, Kairis face forms a small smile as she gazes at the beauty around her. Later, the sun and the clouds return and the island returns to normal. A soft wind blows through the flora and seagulls fly in the air as Kairi walks toward the Secret Place. A ray of light shines through the hole in the ceiling, illuminating the many drawings on the walls. She walks through the cave, touching the rough rocky walls, fondly recalling the memories with her friends. She reaches the furthest wall and kneels, seeing a new drawing of Sora giving Kairi a paopu fruit. Emotion wells up inside her as an image of Sora drawing on the walls appears before her. He stares back at her and smiles, before disappearing. She holds out a hand, smiling, and starts to cry. She ends her time in the Secret Place by drawing her hand giving Sora a paopu fruit. Back in Disney Castle, Chip and Dale call to the attention of Daisy and Queen Minnie. They look and see Huey, Dewey, and Louie running through the courtyard trailed by a procession of walking broomsticks. In the Library of Hollow Bastion, Leon, Yuffie, and Aerith converse with each other. The door opens and Aerith looks over seeing Cid and Cloud. Aerith moves closer and she bends down to stare into Clouds eyes. Meanwhile, Pinocchio has become a real boy and he dances with glee as Geppetto laughs happily. In Agrabah, Jasmine and Aladdin share a passionate kiss as Genie covers his and Abus eyes, but peeks anyway. On the Destiny Islands, Tidus, Wakka, and Selphie run along the beach as Belle, Aurora, Snow White, Cinderella, and Alice return to their respective worlds. Meanwhile, Sora, Donald, and Goofy walk down a winding dirt road on an unknown world Donald Well, now what do we do?
Sora walks with his hands behind his head Sora Weve gotta find Riku and King Mickey. Goofy But, uh, where do we start lookin for that there door to the light?
They stop and sigh, bending towards the ground. Sora hears something up ahead and looks up, seeing Pluto walk in ahead of them, wagging his tail Donald Pluto?
Pluto looks over at them Goofy Hey, Pluto. Where have you been?
They see an envelope in Plutos mouth Sora Huh? Donald Hey! Goofy Gawrsh, thats the kings seal!
Pluto just blinks at them Sora Hey, have you seen King Mickey?
Sora reaches out a hand but Pluto starts running forward down the road. Goofy looks over at Donald, who looks back, happily. Sora runs ahead and turns to them Sora Guys, lets go!
They race after Pluto, Donald keeping his hat from flying off, and laugh together as the road winds ahead of them Voice Remember, Sora. You are the one who will open the door to the light. -Special Secret- Another side, Another story...
With a flash, the dark city awakes. The neon lights paint the town as a hooded figure walks through the rainy streets. Raindrops form puddles on the pavement. Thunder rumbles and lightning flashes as the figure stops in front of a tall skyscraper with enormous video screens. Water falls over the mans hood as he looks down to see glowing eyes appear from the ground. The Neoshadow Heartless rise up from below, unfazed by the cold rain. They quickly surround the man in an immense horde as a silver-haired man gazes down at him from above, despite the black blindfold across his eyes. The man whips out a Keyblade in his left hand, and then another in his right. He spins them in the air and clashes them together, creating sparks. They are the Oathkeeper and the Oblivion. Light and Darkness. Lightning flashes and the silver-haired man faces the sky with his arms outstretched. The clouds part, revealing a meteor shower as a fiery Heartless symbol appears on the ground between the hooded man and the Heartless. The silver-haired man removes his blindfold as the hooded man speaks Wheres Sora? Door of light HEARTLESS NOBODY ENDLESS ID Behind the darkness This is the world in its true form. His voice... I dont hear it anymore. We have come for you, My Liege. This time... Ill fight. What took you so long, Kairi!? Sora... Why? ...Sora. We must find him. You are not my concern! Its not over yet. Sora. You are the source of all Heartless. What is this place!? Maybe our journey meant nothing after all. Can we do it? Against that? Who is Nobody, you ask? They are the nonexistent ones. Your Highness! But Why! Sora? Is this the answer youve been looking for? Well go together. KINGDOM HEARTS
On the Destiny Islands, a girl with long hair watches as a meteor falls from the sky. She places her hands behind her back Special Secret Movie Another Side, Another Story [deep dive]
Sora stands at a crossroads, looking up at the starry sky Utter silence
A bottle with a message in it washes up on shore A fragmented tale A world without you The eyes will close
On a dark beach, a hooded figure walks out from a mysterious rock, its eyes glowing. It steps forward Something so natural
In an equally dark and empty city, the hooded figure walks down the street in pouring rain. A battle begins. He is fighting Heartless using two Keyblades The memory beyond
He slices through them like butter. The fighting is vicious, Neoshadow Heartless leaping in the air. The figure takes out the three around him and tosses a Keyblade through the air to take out the four others hurdling above him. He catches the blade as it swoops back down into his hand before he lands on the ground. He jumps over the remaining horde at the base of a skyscraper and looks skyward Something so simple
A blindfolded man with long silver hair stands atop the roof of the skyscraper. The hooded figure leaps onto the building and begins running up its side, endless Heartless in pursuit. He slices through a multitude of them as he runs up the building, footfalls echoing in his ears XIII Wheres Sora? We must find him.
As he approaches the top of the building, he tosses his Keyblade into the air, destroying several Heartless in its path, as the silver-haired man leaps off the roof 12[Ansems other report] A creation born of ignorance.
The man falls past several video screens at the top of the tower and grabs the Keyblade 11Behind the darkness =/= Door to the light
Time seems to slow as the two enigmatic characters approach each other in their ascent and fall XThe secret place His voice... Its left me. This time... Ill fight.
The two men pass each other, glancing at the others face 9A world between = A forgotten world The gathering VIIIThe third enemy = NOBODY Who is Nobody, you ask? They are the nonexistent ones. VIIENDLESS What took you so long, Kairi? Can we do it? Against that?
Memories of Sora, Riku, and Kairi flash through their minds. One memory of a meeting on the beach between two hooded figures stands out HEARTLESS We have come for you, my liege. You are the source of all Heartless. 6[The Thirteenth Order] ID Metamorphosis Sora? Sora... Why? Your Highness! But why? 5Change The third key 4End of the world What is this place!? Is this the answer youve been looking for? This is the world in its true form. Maybe our journey meant nothing after all. 3Paradise Well go together.
King Mickey flies down onto the roof of the tower holding his Keyblade. He is also in a black hood KINGDOM HEARTS I went to see him.
On the edge of a dark beach, the sun hangs low in the sky, its light dim and far away. The hooded man walks up to a second figure, also hooded, who is sitting on a rock facing the water. The second man turns to face the first He looks just like you.
Soras body floats over the ocean, his eyes closed Everything is coming back to me, the true...