FADE IN:
A vast sea of stars is broken as the warm, amber surface of the planet, UTAPAU, emerges from a total eclipse. Five small moons slowly drift into view from the far side of the planet. The MAIN TITLE is followed by a ROLL-UP:
The REPUBLIC GALACTICA is dead. Ruthless trader barons, driven by greed and the lust for power, have replaced enlightenment with oppression, and "rule by the people" with the FIRST GALACTIC EMPIRE.
Until the tragic Holy Rebellion of "06", the respected JEDI BENDU OF ASHLA were the most powerful warriors in the Universe. For a hundred thousand years, generations of Jedi Bendu knights learned the ways of the mysterious FORCE OF OTHERS, and acted as the guardians of peace and justice in the REPUBLIC. Now these legendary warriors are all but extinct. One by one they have been hunted down and destroyed by a fero- cious rival sect of mercenary warriors: THE BLACK KNIGHTS OF THE SITH.
It is a period of civil wars. The EMPIRE is crumbling into lawless barbarism through- out the million worlds of the galaxy. From the celestial equator to the farthest reaches of the GREAT RIFT, seventy small solar systems have united in a common war against the tyranny of the Empire. Under the command of a mighty Jedi warrior known as THE STARKILLER, the REBEL ALLIANCE has won a crushing victory over the deadly Imperial Star Fleet. The Empire knows that one more such defeat will bring a thousand more solar systems into the rebellion, and Imperial control of the Outlands could be lost forever...
A tiny silver space craft races from behind one of the lifeless Utapau moons. The small rebel spacefighter is being chased by four giant Imperial stardestroyers. Hun- dreds of deadly laser bolts streak from the Imperial warships as they dive on the smaller craft.
Every few moments, the little rebel ship returns the fire, until one of the Imperial battlewagons explodes, causing it to fall out of formation. The three remaining star- destroyers continue the pursuit.
The two elaborate laser gun turrets belch a smoky exhaust as the gun crews, wearing heat-protective suits, goggles and breath masks, cheer and congratulate each other on the direct hit. The gunnery CHIEF finishes speaking into his helmet "com-link", and yells to the crew.
The crews snap-to, and turn back to their giant guns. Sev- eral stubby, three-legged ROBOTS scurry to and fro, bring- ing equipment, and repairing damage to sections of the turrets.
The chaos of battle echoes through the narrow, main passage- way of the starfighter. An explosion rocks the ship, and two construction robots, ARTOO DETOO (R2-D2) and SEE THREEPIO (C-3PO) struggle to make their way through the shaking, bouncing passageway. Both robots are old and battered. Artoo is a short (36 inches), claw-armed, tri-ped. His face is a mass of computer lights, surrounding a radar eye. Threepio, on the other hand, is a tall, slender robot of human proportions. He has a gleaming bronze-like metallic surface of an "Art Deco" design.
The little dwarf robot makes a series of electronic sounds that only a robot could understand.
Artoo gives his tall companion a sheepish computer blink and starts off down the hallway. .
Threepio climbs through a hatch and starts after Artoo.
One of the giant Imperial Stardestroyers breaks formation and surges ahead of the others, closing on the tiny rebel space craft. The main battery of laser cannons on the huge Imperial warship directs an overwhelming concentra- tion or laser fire at the main solar fin on the rebel ship. Finally it disintegrates, creating a spectacular heavenly display.
A sudden pressure change sucks equipment and debris through the power section of the spacefighter. Alarms are sound- ing everywhere. The spaceship shudders under the impact of the Imperial barrage. Artoo and Threepio are blown, slipping and sliding across the hallway floor into a stack of freight canisters. The lanky Threepio becomes lodged under a computer console.
Little Artoo waddles over to his trapped companion. He clears away several mangled canisters and climbs under the sparking and smoking computer. He is chattering away in an elaborate combination of whistles, beeps and clicks.
Artoo counters with a rather angry rebuttal as he struggles to pull the larger robot free from the small leg space under the computer console. Two MEN hurriedly enter the power station and begin checking the damage. The robots can only see the humans' legs as they pass to and fro in front of the desk-like console; but they recognize the voice of their captain: DEAK STARKILLER.
The captain's FIRST OFFICER pops his head under the console and sees Artoo straining to free Threepio. The little robot stops.
Artoo goes back to his pulling and pushing as the officer again becomes a pair of legs, and is joined by the sturdier legs of Captain Starkiller.
Artoo uses one of his claw arms to cut away a small metal beam bent around Threepio's shoulder.
The officer bows low and hurries out of the smoldering cham- ber. Artoo stops his work, and the robots quietly watch Deak's legs as he paces the room. He stands for a few mo- ments in meditation. The two mechanical men suddenly feel as if they are intruding, and every little creak and noise becomes an embarrassment. A VOICE from another part of the ship yells out to the captain, and he rushes out of the room. Threepio breathes a sigh of relief.
The smoldering silver rebel craft is quickly surrounded by the three giant Imperial warships. One of the huge star- destroyers moves into orbit just above the helpless rebel spacefighter.
An awesome array of lighted panels and computer monitors are reflected in the polished black helmets of six Imperial master-pilots. A fifth-ranked General of the Fleet sits in a rotating chair suspended from the cabin ceiling, watching the chief pilot maneuver the huge warship above the tiny rebel spacefighter.
The huge gray underbelly of the Imperial warship hovers less than twenty feet above the rebel spacefighter.
A small hatch near one of the complex antenna groupings silently slides open. With fascist precision, ten storm- troopers wearing ominous armored spacesuits drop onto the top of the disabled rebel craft. A burly sergeant aims his powerful laser pistol at the silver hull.
A tremendous blast opens up a hole six feet wide in the side of the main passageway, sucking equipment and debris into the vacuum of space. Three fearsome stormtroopers armed with chrome multi-laser rifles make their way through the smoking debris into the padded hallway. The SERGEANT and four more armored troopers quickly follow.
The troops sling the rifles over their shoulders and take a small baton from their belts, which instantly ignites into a long glowing laser sword.
At the far end of the passageway, a door swings wide reveal- ing a rebel warrior wearing a breath mask and dressed in the distinctive uniform of an AQUILLIAN RANGER. A long, deadly laser sword glows in his right hand, while several chrome ping-pong sized balls magically appear in his left. Tiny antenna project from the chrome balls, and before the stormtroopers can raise their weapons, the balls fly out of the ranger's hand. One of the balls stops in the middle of the troops and explodes. Three other balls shoot through the hole ripped in the side of the ship.
Six armored stormtroopers are assembled on the sleek silver hull of the rebel spacefighter. The three chrome balls fly out of the rebel craft just as several more troops drop from the hatch of the Imperial stardestroyer. One or the seeker- bombs explodes among the assembled troops, flinging most of them into the vastness of space. The two remaining bombs rocket toward the open hatch of the Imperial warship. One of the surviving stormtroopers, clinging to the rebel craft, yells into his helmet intercom as he aims a laser pistol at the tiny chrome projectiles.
A blast from the laser pistol hits one of the balls, and it explodes harmlessly outside the stardestroyer. The second seeker bomb races into the stardestroyer, just as the hatch slides closed. A muffled explosion is heard in- side the huge spacecraft.
The Aquillian ranger charges what's left of the storm- troopers. He swings his glowing laser sword high over his head; but before he can bring the deadly blade down on a victim, four more troops enter the ship and assail the ranger. He puts up a good fight, but soon falls under the superior odds. A half dozen more armored stormtroopers enter the damaged ship and cautiously make their way down the narrow hallway.
Smoke fills the crowded cockpit of the rebel starship. The pilot struggles to remove a wounded comrade as an exhausted Aquillian RANGER enters and bows before Deak Starkiller. The young captain's face is covered by a small, ornate face mask, but he appears to be about twenty-five years old. He is wearing the loose-fitting robes of a Jedi knight.
The ranger bows low before the Jedi starcaptain, and rushes out of the cockpit. The pilot has returned to his seat in front of the ship's main control board.
He moves to the computer bank, and speaks into the intercom.
He turns back to the pilot for a moment.
Little Artoo stands ridged in the middle of the smoke-filled passageway. Threepio runs awkwardly toward the tiny robot from a large hatchway at one end of the corridor. Artoo's computer face blinks wildly.
Artoo lets out a long musical whistle, but doesn't move.
The muted sounds of grinding and crushing get louder until a dozen Imperial stormtroopers, wearing spooky-looking armor, enter the passageway. They arrange themselves geometrically, their movements synchronized, as they move stealthily through the unusually wide corridor. Threepio grabs his little part- ner and struggles to drag him into the shadows of an emer- gency ventilator system. Hard and weary, the troops advance -- their glowing laser swords held at ready. Suddenly, directly in back of the stormtroopers, about ten feet away, the imposing young Jedi, Deak Starkiller, steps from behind the open hatch.
His chrome laser pistol still rests in its holster; but his laser sword sparks to life with a sharp hum. One of the troopers senses his presence and turns freezing momentarily. The rest of the troops turn a second later, almost as a re- flex action. A slow grim smile creeps across Deak's face, as the troops realize they are outmatched.
Six troopers who are carrying their chrome laser rifles at the ready start to step forward and raise their weapons. Deak is quicker. In one amazing movement, he spins around, replacing his laser sword to his belt, and draws his deadly laser pistol, blasting out four shots that rip through the soldiers. In a few moments, the entire passageway blazes with laser fire. Laser bolts ricochet in wild random pat- terns, creating small explosions and finally a small hole in the wall, which sucks debris and stormtroopers into space, until finally it is plugged by a large supply canister.
Artoo and Threepio are plummeted by loose equipment and de- bris. Threepio attempts to cover his head. Artoo pulls a grate off the vent system and starts to enter the dark shaft. Threepio clings to a side rail for dear life as debris and laser bolts fly past him. Artoo beeps to his terrified com- panion.
Artoo disappears down the ominous shaft. He leaves his friend with a few parting whistles.
Threepio peers into the gloom of the vent shaft.
Stormtroopers scatter and run down an adjoining passageway; others duck behind storage lockers.
Multiple laser fire rips through several stormtroopers who scream and stagger from the smoke, holding shattered arms and faces. Deak and two Aquillian rangers back into a sealed corridor at the far end of the passageway. Deak's gun jams, and the two rangers are cut down behind him. The young Jedi ignites his glowing red laser sword and begins swinging. Stormtroopers are cut down right and left, un- til they flee the corridor in panic, firing wildly as they stumble over canisters to escape.
Suddenly several of the panic-stricken troopers who had fled down a sub-hallway are back into the cockpit area, more afraid of what's down the sub-hallway than the deadly Jedi's blade. Troopers still fleeing the area crash into those re- turning.
A new courage, or greater fear, seizes the troops and they turn on Deak again and renew the attack. The troops scram- ble away from the sub-hallway entrance, as something un- speakably evil and terrifying approaches the cabin.
The tall, gleaming Threepio rushes through several low, nar- row corridors, yelling at Artoo, who races along as fast as his stubby mechanical feet will carry him.
Artoo throws a short beep over his shoulder.
Artoo continues on, countering with a frenzy of electronic whistles and twangs.
Artoo stops before the small hatch of an emergency lifepod. He snaps the seal on the main latch and a red warning light begins to flash. The stubby, dwarf-robot works his way into the cramped four-man pod.
A new explosion, this time very close, sends dust and debris through the narrow sub-hallway. Flames lick at the two ro- bots. After a flurry of electronic swearing from Artoo, the lanky bronze Threepio jumps into the lifepod.
The safety door snaps shut, and with the thunder of explod- ing latches, the tiny lifepod ejects from the disabled star- fighter.
On the main viewscreen, the lifepod carrying the two terri- fied robots speeds away from the stricken rebel spacecraft.
The captain gets a message on his headset.
The pilots cheer and an excited murmur rushes throughout the ship.
The reddish-yellow mass of Utapau seems to engulf the tiny lifepod containing the two robots. The grouping of star- destroyers grows smaller as the pod descends toward the planet.
Deak Starkiller cuts down several troops who make a fren- zied, suicidal charge with laser swords.
They are no match for the incredibly agile young Jedi. For an eerie moment, all is deathly quiet as a huge darker figure appears in the sub-hallway. The remaining stormtroopers bow low toward the doorway. An awesome, seven-foot BLACK KNIGHT OF THE SITH makes his way into the blinding light of the cock- pit area. This is LORD DARTH VADER, right hand to the MASTER OF THE SITH. His sinister face is partially obscured by his flowing black robes and grotesque breath mask, which are in sharp contrast to the fascist white armored suits of the Imperial stormtroopers. The troops instinctively back away from the imposing warrior.
Deak Starkiller stands firm; a new look of resolve sweeps across his tired face. The smoky room is deathly quiet, ex- cept for the occasional snapping and popping of burning electrical circuits in the cockpit's sophisticated control panel.
As the Black Knight enters the corridor, the few surviving troopers scramble into the sub-hallway. Lord Vader speaks in an oddly filtered voice through his complex breathing mask.
Vader is angered by this remark. Taking a deep breath, he raises his arms and every object that isn't bolted down is picked up by an invisible force and hurled at the young Jedi. When the objects reach about two feet of Deak, they are deflected by an invisible shield which surrounds him.
The fearsome dark knight ignites his laser sword and takes a defensive stance. The two galactic warriors stand per- fectly still for a few moments, sizing each other up and waiting for the right moment. Deak seems to be under in- creasing pressure and strain, as if an invisible weight were being placed upon him. He shakes his head and blink- ing, tries to clear his eyes.
Deak makes a sudden lunge at the huge warrior but is checked by a lightning movement of the SITH. A second masterful slash-stroke by Deak is again blocked by his evil opponent.
They stand motionless for a few moments, with laser swords locked in mid-air, creating a low buzzing sound. Another of the Jedi's blows is blocked, then countered. Deak stum- bles back against a wall. Slowly Deak is forced to his knees as all his energy is drained from his being. Finally, he collapses in a heap. The sinister knight lets out a horrible, shrieking laugh, as stormtroopers rush in with restraining poles, followed by a braided and flashy Imperial commander. Deak's arms and legs are pinned to the wall. He struggles with his bonds.
An Imperial officer takes a gold medallion from around the young Jedi's neck.
A murmur of astonishment races throughout the troops.
The great Black Knight studies the golden crest, and then stares into the eyes of the fuming Jedi. Vader has a visi- ble dislike of the commander.
The Black Knight takes a restraining pole from one of the guards and brutally jabs the young Jedi in the chest. Deak squirms in pain but does not cry out. He is struck again. An officer approaches the commander.
Vader gives the commander an angry stare and suddenly it appears as if the commander can't catch his breath. The commander turns and rushes out of the cabin in great dis- tress. Vader punches Deak one last time.
Vader throws Deak's head back painfully hard against the wall.
His frightening laugh rings throughout the starship.
JUNDLAND, or "No Man's Land" where the rugged desert mesas meet the foreboding dune sea. The two helpless astro-robots kick up clouds of dust as they leave the lifepod, and clum- sily work their way across the desert coastline. The stubby Artoo struggles desperately to keep up with the long-legged Threepio. Suddenly, Artoo makes a sharp right turn, and starts off in the direction of the rocky desert mesas. Threepio stops and yells at him.
A stream of electronic noises pour forth from the small ro- bot.
Artoo continues his electronic babbling.
He picks up the tiny robot and tosses him several feet into a large sand dune. Threepio starts off in the direction of the dune sea. Artoo struggles to his three, stubby feet and shakes a metallic claw arm at his disappearing ex-partner.
Artoo counters with a few short whistles.
Artoo's reply is a rather rude sound. He turns and trudges off in the opposite direction.
Threepio, hot and tired, struggles up over the ridge of a dune, only to find more dunes, which seem to go on for end- less miles. He looks back in the direction of the now dis- tant rock mesas.
He sits in a huff of anger and frustration, knocking the sand from his joints. His plight seems hopeless, when a glint of reflected light in the distance reveals an object speeding toward him. The bronze android waves frantically and yells at the approaching transport.
The little Artoo stumbles over several boulders as he strug- gles to reach the crest of a rocky mesa.
He reaches the top and scans the foreboding desert valley below. Far in the distance, shining in the twin suns like an inviting oasis, stands the settlement of ANCHORHEAD. The mechanical runt carries on an electronic conversation with himself as he searches the rugged ground for something. He picks up a large stone in his powerful claw hand, then discards it. He finds another stone that he is apparently satisfied with, carries it to the edge of the butte, and tosses it over. The stone slams down the steep side of the mesa, kicking up dust and creating a small avalanche. He makes some quick calculations, then starts off down the treacherous slope.
The gargantuan rock formations are shrouded in a strange mist, and the ominous sounds of unearthly creatures fill the air. Artoo moves cautiously through the creepy rock canyon, inadvertently making a loud clicking noise as he goes. He hears a distant, hard metallic sound and stops for a moment. He hears nothing. He sees nothing moving. Convinced he is alone, he continues on his way.
In the distance, a pebble tumbles down the steep canyon wall and a small dark figure darts into the shadows. A little further up the canyon, a slight flicker of light reveals a pair of eyes in the dark recesses, only a few feet from the narrow path.
The unsuspecting robot waddles along the rugged trail un- til suddenly, out of nowhere, a powerful magnetic ray shoots out of the rocks and engulfs him in an eerie glow. He manages one short electronic squeak before he topples over onto his back. His bright computer lights flicker off, then on, then off again. Out of the rocks scurry three MEN, no taller than Artoo. They holster strange and com- plex weapons as they cautiously approach the robot. They wear grubby cloaks, and their faces are shrouded so that only their yellow eyes can be seen. They hiss and make odd guttural sounds as they heave the heavy robot to their shoulders, and carry him off down the trail. The vile little creatures grunt and groan as they struggle with their weighty prize. They smell horribly, attracting small insects to the dark areas where their mouths and nostrils should be.
Eight dwarfs, or JAWAS, as they're sometimes called, carry Artoo out of the canyon to a huge sandcrawler -- a tank- like vehicle the size of a two-story house.
They place the robot in a small bin on one side of the crawler, and a mechanical arm promptly lifts the bin, dump- ing the unconscious Artoo into the back of the giant trac- tor. The filthy little Jawas scurry like rats up small ladders and enter the main cabin of the behemoth transport. Several windows light up in the cockpit area toward the front of the crawler followed by the loud scream of power- ful engines. The enormous sandcrawler turns and lumbers off toward the magnificent twin suns, now slowly setting over a distant mountain range.
It is dim and dank inside the hold area of the sandcrawler. Artoo lies on a pile of metal scrap, lifepods, rocket parts, and the limbs and dismembered parts of robots. Artoo's computer lights slowly begin to glow, then they blink on full power. He makes a few electronic sounds to himself as he tries to figure out what happened, and where he is. He stumbles around on the scrap heap until he thinks to turn on the small floodlight on his forehead.
The narrow beam swings across the rubble and stops on the half-buried claw arm of another robot. Artoo moves over to the buried robot and calls to it, but gets no response. He pulls on the arm but it won't budge. Finally he gives it a good tug and it breaks loose, sending him head over heels. He sits dazed, holding the severed forearm of a power robot, then lets out a terrifying electronic shriek. The little robot scans the rest of the huge chamber with his headlights and sees a series of grotesquely twisted and maimed astro robots. The narrow beam comes to rest on a battered, but otherwise whole "common-labor" robot. The "laborer" makes a move to cover his giant electronic eye, which is extended on a long tube from his box-like body. Little Artoo jumps back in fright.
Artoo is still shaken, but manages a short apology and then shuts off his light. The laborer robot is barely visible.
Artoo stumbles off toward what appears to be a door at the end of the chamber.
He enters a large room with a very low ceiling (about four feet high). In the middle of the scrap heap sit a dozen or so robots of various shapes and sizes. Some are engaged in electronic conversation, while others simply mill about. In the middle of the group sits a strange, little robot with a large worklight for a head, which illuminates the odd assemblage of mechanical slaves. A blue "astroconstruction" robot -- somewhat similar to Artoo, only a bit fatter - approaches the newcomer and beeps an electronic greeting. The two stubby robots exchange electronic analysis of the situation as they waddle toward the group. A voice of rec- ognition calls out from the gloom.
A battered and slightly worse-for-wear Threepio scrambles up to Artoo on his hands and knees (remember the four foot ceiling) and embraces him.
The blue robot continues on back to the group as the two old companions huddle in a hollow of scrap metal.
Artoo makes a short electronic reply.
The monstrous sandcrawler pulls up to a large outcropping of rocks in the trail and grinds to a rumbling stop.
Several Jawa's scramble out of the huge vehicle to inspect the boulders blocking the trail. An argument erupts between one Jawa, in a red habit, and the other hooded dwarfs. He yells something at the others, then walks off to the side of the trail. The rest of the little creatures climb back into the giant tank. The crawler starts with a low hummmmm, slowly moving forward until a loud scraping noise screams from beneath the chassis. The red-cloaked dwarf climbs on- to a nearby rock and yells at the others to stop. They ig- nore him.
The scraping sound is haunting as well as deafening. The entire chamber trembles, creating quite a commotion among the mechanical men. At the far end of the long chamber, a bright light suddenly appears, followed by a cacophony of electronic shouts and yells. The "common labor" robot runs past the confused Artoo and Threepio.
Amidst the confusion of the fleeing robots, Artoo and Threepio carefully make their way toward a break in the side of the crawler. Several Jawas appear at the opening with pistols, but before they can fire, they are knocked over and trampled by the fleeing mechanical men.
The sound of yelling Jawas and screaming robots fades in the distance as Artoo and Threepio scramble up a narrow ra- vine away from the sandcrawler. They duck into a tiny crev- ice in the rock to avoid several fleeing robots, followed by a dozen armed Jawas. After a few moments they peer out, and seeing that the way is clear, rush off down the winding path.
DISSOLVE TO:
A small settlement, consisting of a few run-down blockhouse- type buildings, rests against one of the huge rock mesas. The two robots study the sleepy little camp from a bluff some distance away.
The runt-like Artoo starts off down the side of the rocky bluff.
Threepio chases his little partner down the slope.
The dozen or so buildings are bleached white by the two Utapau suns. A harsh and dusty wind blows through the empty streets of the tiny settlement. A rather frightened Threepio follows his little companion down the foreboding street to- ward a low concrete structure that is all but covered by the desert sands. The rusted hulk of a powerful "landspeeder" (an auto-like transport which travels a few feet above the ground on a magnetic field) lies half-buried to one side of the building. The two robots cautiously approach the dilapi- dated power station.
It is quiet, but for the continual wind. A dismantled speeder rests in the repair bay of the gas station-like building. There is a sharp dripping sound coming from the speeder. It appears that no one is around.
Out of the gloom of the office behind them, a voice cuts through the silence:
The robots turn around with a start. A short, wizened old MECHANIC of sixty or seventy stands before them.
The old mechanic is a bit suspicious. An evil look fills his eye. He rubs his grimy, withered hand over Threepio's smooth metal shoulder.
Artoo beeps a few signals to his bronze friend. The old mechanic begins to fiddle with the wrench he is holding, in the most unsettling way. Threepio becomes a bit nervous.
The mechanic starts dragging a heavy power-pack toward the station.
Artoo helps the old man with the heavy power pack.
The two robots start down the empty street heading north, leaving the old mechanic scratching his head. The old man passes a sinister-looking, black Imperial speeder half hidden behind a generator as he returns to his gloomy of- fice.
In the shadows of the dingy little office sits a large, burly Imperial "Tusken". His reddish eyes are sunken in a larger than normal, dust-covered face. He sits up in his chair.
The gray Tusken thinks about this for a moment.
Several concrete buildings squat in the middle of a desolate valley. Threepio hurries after his determined companion as they near the low gray structures.
Artoo and Threepio enter the main courtyard of the Lars Homestead and find themselves standing in a sparse but spark- ling oasis, with low concrete walls and great turrets spill- ing over with foliage from rooftop gardens. They stop be- fore an enormous shaded corridor. BIGGS AND WINDY STARKILLER, twin boys a little over seven years old, run through the long tile walkway to greet the robots. Yelling and laughing, their tiny footsteps echo throughout the building. They are quickly followed by OWEN LARS, a bearded, sturdy-burly man in his early fifties and his plump-jolly wife, BERU. Their beautiful sixteen-year-old daughter, LEIA, stands shyly at the far end of the entry. The twins run around the robots, jumping and screaming their excitement. The mechanical men are somewhat befuddled by the dynamic duo, and attempt to ignore them.
Owen and Beru are startled at the mention of "Angel Blue". Leia approaches the group, and eyes the robots suspiciously; she turns to her father.
Beru's concern at the mention of Deak cannot be contained.
The two boys let out a cheer and run off toward the distant horizon.
The mechanical duo lumber off after the disappearing twins.
Alone in a wind-swept canyon stands LUKE STARKILLER, a short, chubby boy about eighteen years old. He seems frozen in place, a humming laser sword held high over his head. The twins stop on the ridge overlooking their brother and fall silent. The robots soon take up position behind them.
Biggs turns and gestures to the tall bronze man to be quiet. Suspended at eye level -- about ten feet in front of Luke -- a chrome baseball covered with antenna hovers slowly in a wide arc. The ball floats to one side of the youth, then to the other. Suddenly it makes a lightning swift lunge and stops within a few feet of Luke's face. Luke doesn't move, and the ball backs off. It slowly moves behind the boy, then makes another quick lunge, this time emitting a blood- red laser beam as it attacks.
Luke sparks to life. With one amazingly swift move, he turns and swings his laser sword, deflecting the beam, and losing his balance, tumbles to the desert floor. The ball shoots straight up in the air about twenty feet, then drops like a rock firing a second laser bolt, which hits the youth square on the seat of his pants. Luke lets out a painful yell and attempts to scramble to his feet, but is hit several more times before he manages to regain his balance and de- flect the bolts.
The ball ceases firing, and moves back to its original posi- tion. Luke raises his hand signaling "enough for one day". He wearily picks up his things, including the chrome ball, then turns and waves to the small group on the ridge. The twins run down to greet him. By the time the cumbersome Artoo and Threepio make it down the slope, Biggs and Windy are climbing all over their big brother.
The two robots make a short bow before the youth.
Artoo makes a few electronic beeps and whistles; then after a little static, a small (two foot) 3-D hologram of Deak is projected from the face of the robot. The image is a rain- bow of color as it flickers and jiggles in the desert waste- land.
An Aquillian officer enters the hologram and interrupts Deak. There is a little static, then the transmission is cut short. A grave concern sweeps over Luke as he contemplates the fate of his brother. Biggs and Windy are puzzled.
The boys rush off with the robots in tow, leaving Luke sit- ting silently alone. He picks up some small stones and be- gins to toss them at a large boulder. A chip in the boulder reveals a small shiny fossil. Luke spots it and goes over to study it. He takes a small camera out of his bag and photographs it, making some accompanying notations in a small book.
Owen Lars and the three boys sit before a table covered with steaming bowls of food. Biggs and Windy are eating between giggles and horseplay. Luke has barely touched his dinner. Leia enters from the kitchen with a flask filled with blue milk. She sits near Luke.
Beru enters carrying a small pitcher. She gives Owen a knowing smile as she slides into her place at the table.
She hands him a dish, and he grunts an embarrassed reply.
Biggs and Windy have finished eating and are getting restless.
The twins scamper into the kitchen with their dirty dishes.
Leia listens to the discussion with much interest. She watches Luke with un-concealed admiration.
Leia is unable to control her concern.
Leia settles down, but she is clearly worried. There is a long silence. Owen sits back in his chair, and lights up his pipe. The twins can be heard playing with Artoo and Threepio in the other room. The silence becomes uncomfort- able.
Tears begin to roll down Leia's cheeks, and she rushes from the room. Beru looks to Owen, who looks to Luke, who looks embarrassed.
Owen gets up from the table and gently pats Luke on the shoulder.
Luke sits before a tall smooth stone planted on a burial mound. He sits with his head bowed to his knees. Finally he stands up and speaks to the stone.
The twin suns of Utapau rest red on the horizon as Luke leaves the grave site and walks the short distance to the main house.
The main living area is a dim, cool room projecting a feel- ing of time-worn comfort and security. Owen lovingly moves his arm around Beru as they stand before a large window watching the giant twin suns of Utapau slowly disappear be- hind a distant dune range.
The door opens and Luke enters, collapsing in a large, over- stuffed chair near a pot-belly thermal-heater which dominates the room. A warm friendly glow radiates from a tiny portal in front of the heater. Luke's gaze is fixed on the red em- bers, but his eyes are lit as if by a greater fire from within.
Owen and Beru talk quietly in the background. She rests her head on his shoulder as the last rays of sunlight stream across the floor of the room. A playful Biggs and Windy enter with Leia and stand in the doorway. The twins are dressed in their night clothes.
Luke returns from his world of dark thoughts and smiles at them. The twins rush up to Owen and Beru, give them a kiss, then bounce over to Luke, and jump into his lap.
Owen and Beru take Leia into the other room.
The boys settle down and listen attentively.
Early morning breaks across the quiet little courtyard as Owen and Luke lift supplies into the back of a low, bat- tered, two-man landspeeder. Threepio lifts Artoo into a tiny jump-seat, then climbs into the passenger compartment. Beru, Leia, and the twins stand in the entryway, silently watching. The storage hatch is slammed shut with a bang. Owen unfastens his gun-belt and hands it to Luke. He slides back a small latch on the belt buckle revealing a small diamond-like crystal. Luke carefully examines it.
Luke stands looking at the Crystal for a few moments, then snaps the buckle closed and puts on the belt.
For a few awkward moments, Luke stands looking at everyone not really wanting to say goodbye.
Luke shakes his hand, and Owen gives him a big hug. The young adventurer then goes to his Aunt Beru and gives her a kiss and a hug.
He lovingly roughs up the twins, and starts to give Leia a kiss, but thinks better of it and gives her a short polite hug before retreating to the speeder. Leia is greatly dis- appointed.
Luke pops open the door of the speeder; but before he can get in, Leia runs up and gives him a big kiss. Luke is sur- prised and embarrassed. Beru and Owen smile, as Leia rushes back into the house. Luke settles into the speeder and it starts with a crack and loud whine. Everyone waves as the speeder roars out of the courtyard, and into the desolate Utapau wilderness.
The sleek landspeeder glides effortlessly through the treacherous rock canyons and out onto the awesome dune sea. The vibrations of the speeder causes Artoo's outer shell to rattle a rhythmic little tune.
Artoo chatters to his bronze interpreter.
Luke thinks about this for a few moments; then rather reluc- tantly, almost afraid, he asks a second question.
Luke seems a little disappointed with Threepio's answer.
The small speeder sits at the bottom of a huge sand dune. Luke, with his extremely long-barreled laser rifle slung over his shoulder, makes his way to the top of the ridge. He studies the landscape with his electro-binoculars, until he spots a small dust twister speeding toward them. He quickly slides back down the dune to where Threepio is lift- ing Artoo out of the speeder. The stubby little robot struts around stretching his joints between irritated whis- tles.
DISSOLVE TO:
The speeder stops on a bluff overlooking the spaceport at MOS EISLEY. It is a haphazard array of low gray concrete structures and semi-domes. A harsh gale blows across the bleak canyon floor and batters Luke as he lowers his sand goggles and walks to the edge of the craggy bluff. A leaden sky presses down on the large settlement, which seems to be losing a never-ending battle against the shifting sands. Something in the distance catches his eye, and he instinctively grabs his electrobinoculars. He follows a sinister-black "tusken" landspeeder as it enters the space- port. Luke returns to his speeder, and his two mechanical companions.
Luke stops the speeder before the remains of a burnt-out spaceship the size of a large jet fighter. Two scruffy figures huddle around a small thermal-heater, attempting to use the spacecraft as shelter against the howling winds. One of the rag-tag figures gets up and ventures over to Luke in the speeder. When the shabby beggar stands up, it is obvious from his pint size that he is a Jawa. Artoo lets out a string of electronic beeps and whistles.
The wretched little creature moves close to the speeder and begins to run his gnarled little hand across it.
Saliva dribbles from the dark hole where the Jawa's face should be and drops, splat, on the hood of the speeder.
The Jawa continues to fondle the speeder as Luke starts the magno-system. The filthy little creature reluctantly jumps away as the speeder takes off and glides down the dismal spaceport street.
The speeder pulls up in front of a run-down, blockhouse can- tina on the outskirts of the spaceport. Various strange forms of transport, including several unusual beasts of bur- den, are parked outside the bar.
As the trio exit the speeder, an ancient human shrouded in gray robes, sitting near the entrance to the cantina calls out to them. The man appears to be a blind beggar.
Luke reluctantly approaches the old man.
Luke drops several coins in the man's open palm.
Luke is somewhat puzzled by the old man's dialogue.
The young adventurer and his two mechanical servants enter the smoke-filled cantina. The murky, moldy den is filled with a startling array of weird and exotic alien creatures and monsters, laughing at the long metallic bar. At first, the sight is horrifying. One-eyed, thousand-eyed, slimy, furry, scaly tentacles and claws huddle over drinks. Luke moves to an empty spot at the bar near a group of repulsive but human Corellian pirates. A huge, rough-looking BAR- TENDER comes over to Luke and the robots.
Luke, still recovering from the shock of seeing so many out- landish creatures in one room, doesn't quite catch the bar- tender's drift.
Luke notices that several of the creatures along the bar are giving them a very unfriendly glare.
Threepio and his stubby partner go outside, and most of the creatures at the bar go back to their drinks. Luke is stand- ing next to HAN SOLO, a young Corellian pirate only a few years older than himself. He is a burly-bearded but ruggedly handsome boy dressed in a gaudy array of flamboyant apparel.
Han Solo eyes him suspiciously.
Han turns to his companion, CHEWBACCA, an eight foot tall, savage-looking creature resembling a huge gray bush-baby monkey with fierce "baboon"-like fangs. His large yellow eyes dominate a fur-covered face and soften his otherwise awesome appearance. Over his matted, furry body, he wears two chrome bandoliers, a flak jacket painted in a bizarre camouflage pattern, brown cloth shorts, and little else. He is a two-hundred-year-old "WOOKIEE", and a sight to be- hold. Han speaks to the Wookiee in his own language, which is little more than a series of grunts. The young pirate points to Luke several times during his conversation and the creature suddenly lets out a horrifying laugh. Han chuckles to himself and turns back to Luke.
He can't control his laughter, and Chewbacca starts in again, also. Luke is getting a little worried.
Han puts his arm around Luke's shoulder and draws him near.
He lets out a hearty laugh and turns back to the giant Wookiee. Luke is afraid, but tries not to show it. He quietly sips his drink, looking over the crowd for a more sympathetic ear, or whatever. A large multiple-eyed creature on the other side of Luke gives him a rather rough shove.
The hideous freak is obviously drunk. Luke tries to ignore the creatures and turns back to his drink. A short grubby HUMAN and an even smaller rodent-like beast join the belli- gerent monstrosity.
The big creature is getting agitated, and yells some unin- telligible gibberish at the now rather nervous young Jedi.
The rodent lets out a loud grunt and everything at the bar moves away. Luke tries to remain cool, but it isn't easy.
His three adversaries ready their weapons. Han Solo, who has been watching the chain of events, begins to feel sorry for the young tenderfoot and intervenes.
A powerful blow from the unpleasant creature sends the young Corellian pirate sailing across the room, crashing through tables and breaking a large jug filled with a foul-looking liquid. With a blood-curdling shriek, the monster draws a wicked chrome laser pistol from his belt. The bartender panics!
Little Luke's laser sword sparks to life, and in a flash, an arm lies on the floor. The rodent is cut in two, and the giant, multiple-eyed creature lies doubled, cut from chin to groin. Luke shaking, and somewhat amazed at his reflex powers, replaces his sword in its sheath. The entire fight has lasted only a matter of seconds. The cantina goes back to normal, although Luke is now given a respectable amount of room at the bar. Han, rubbing his bruised head, approaches the "little one" with new awe. The bartender drags the bodies out.
Luke is still giddy, and downs a fresh drink.
Luke is filled with grateful enthusiasm at his new-found "friends" and ignores their sinister grins.
Han, Chewbacca, Luke and the robots walk along a narrow slum alleyway crowded with darkly-clad creatures hawking exotic goods in dingy little stalls. Men and monsters crouch in waste-filled doorways whispering and hiding from the chill- ing winds. They enter a small doorway in a decaying stone building at the far end of the alley.
The seedy slum dwelling is dark and dingy. Han is greeted by a female "Boma" named OEETA. The Boma is a fur-covered creature about five feet high and looks like a cross between a brown bear and a guinea pig. It is obvious from her figure that she is a female. Han embraces Oeeta and gives her a big kiss, then checks out the stew-like mess boiling away on a dilapidated fusion-burner in the kitchen area.
She answers in a strange baboon-like call and starts dish- ing up the slop. Threepio and Artoo cautiously dust off a bench in the kitchen and sit down. Luke and Chewbacca join Han at a large table in the center of the main room.
Oeeta brings them each a steaming bowl of "Boma-mush", and a large mug of some heavy brew. Chewbacca and Han dig in with great vigor, but Luke is a little hesitant.
Artoo and Threepio become suddenly attentive and listen closely to the conversation in the next room. Artoo begins to beep, but Threepio puts his bronze hand over his little companion's mouth. Luke thinks about this for a moment.
The two robots breathe a sigh of relief. Han's waning in- terest is renewed by the mention of "great influence".
Han thinks about this for a few moments, then turns to Chewbacca and seemingly explains the situation to him. The Wookiee shrugs his shoulders as if to say "Why not?"
Han and his lumbering first-mate Chewbacca hurry along be- hind MONTROSS HOLDAACK, a large, portly man who walks with a stiff, awkward gait. They move along a tall gantry over- looking a long, complex spacecraft.
Montross suddenly ignites in a rage and swings his left forearm down with a mighty blow across the metal rail of the gantry. The old science officer's forearm cracks in two, spewing forth wires, and many fine multi-colored elec- tronic components.
The artificial limb flops lifelessly to Montross Holdaack's side.
Han bows his head in sorrow and embarrassment for one of the greatest warriors in the galaxy and a dear friend.
The entry bay of the large starship is also the main lounge area of the ship. Two gruff and grisly pirates are playing a kind of dice game with thin little sticks. The larger and mangiest of the two slavering hulks, JABBA THE HUTT by name, throws his dice at Chewbacca.
Chewbacca slinks back outside the starship as Han helps the still slightly crazed Montross aboard the craft. Han gen- erally ignores Jabba's tirade.
The second pirate notices Montross's arm, as Han sets him on a bench near the door.
The cockpit of the starship is crowded with a haphazard ar- ray of computer switches and monitors. Dozing in one of the two pilot chairs is CAPTAIN OXUS, a man of the grossest dimensions. His scarred face is a grim testimonial to his prowess as a pirate and a killer. The young Han Solo en- ters the cabin and stands staring at the evil galactic buccaneer -- the terror of the Outland territories -- so peaceful, such an easy prey. Han doesn't know quite what to do, so he starts to leave. Oxus opens one eye. He is in a drunken stupor.
Han bows low before his master, then moves down the narrow passageway to a small closet, where he takes out a cup of silver powder and returns to Oxus.
He takes a mighty swing at the boy, but his inebriated con- dition causes the blow to ricochet off, and slam against a locker panel. Han rushes out of the room.
Han is angry with himself for not being able to tell the captain about Luke. He kicks the door to a locker in dis- gust. Suddenly an idea comes to him and he rushes back down the hallway.
Luke and the two robots approach the entry bay of the giant starship, and are intercepted by the giant Wookiee, Chewbacca.
Luke hands the huge funny creature his back-pack, but the Wookiee doesn't take it. Instead, Chewbacca refuses to let them pass and carries on about something in his harsh na- tive tongue. Luke doesn't understand.
The gleaming bronze robot jabbers away in strange animal sounds to the towering monster. They carry on an animated argument, until it appears Threepio gets in the last word.
Han and Montross are busy prying loose a control panel in a forward corridor of the ship. The cover falls to the floor with a loud clang, and the young cabin boy looks around to see if anyone heard. Montross takes a small metal bar and jams it between two circuits. Sparks, fly and a small puff of smoke issues from the panel. He quickly re- places the cover and Han heads back toward the captain's bridge.
The cockpit area of the starship is a cacophony of warning alarms and flashing lights. The captain clumsily works at the control console in a vain attempt to figure out what is going on. Han enters carrying a long gray cloak.
Oxus stumbles around in a drunken stupor.
A new shrill alarm begins to sound, as Han grabs the groggy old pirate and drags him out of the cabin.
Han and the lumbering pirate captain charge into the entry bay, almost knocking down Jabba the Hutt.
Jabba the Hutt and the other pirate stumble over each other, racing for the exit. Little Artoo scoots out of the way just as the two pirates rush past the group and into the spacestation main building. They are quickly followed by the wobbly captain. Luke watches the trio with puzzled amazement as the blast door slides closed behind them. Chewbacca gets a message on his belt com-link, and gestures to Luke that they should enter the deserted starship. Luke and the two robots reluctantly follow the giant Wookiee into the entry bay. Chewbacca pushes a button, and the main hatch slams shut. The alarms continue to ring.
Threepio repeats the question in Wookieese and gets a short, rather menacing answer from the creature, who points to the high-backed seat of the lounge area.
The alarm signal is suddenly cut short.
The one armed Montross sits in the pilot seat pushing but- tons and switches. Han rushes in and sits in the co-pilot seat. He is laughing.
Montross laughs heartily as he pulls back on the throttle. The ship shudders as it lifts off.
Captain Oxus and Jabba the Hutt stand before a large window overlooking the docking port. Oxus is furious, ranting and raving. Jabba stands dumbfoundedly, with his mouth hanging open. The ship quickly disappears into the vastness of the night sky.
Han sits back in the huge co-pilot's chair and puts his feet up on the control console.
He chuckles. The surface of Utapau slowly drifts out of view of the cockpit windows and is replaced by a sparkling carpet of stars.
They both laugh. Little Artoo appears momentarily in the doorway, makes a few beeping remarks, then scurries away. In a few moments, Luke appears at the doorway.
Montross gives Han a sly smile, as Artoo appears timidly behind his master.
Han stands nervously waiting for Chewbacca, who is looking through Luke's things as the young adventurer sleeps. The huge furry creature is very quiet as he moves about the cabin. He picks up Luke's gun belt containing the hidden Kiber Crystal. He takes the belt and a pouch to his wait- ing master, and quietly whispers to him. Han begins to search the belt.
He drops the belt and pouch in disgust.
Han enters and flops down in the co-pilot's seat. Montross is busy studying the solar system with the ship's scanner.
Montross looks up from the scanner with a worried look.
Luke, Chewbacca and the two robots sit around a lighted table covered with many small metal figures. Each side of the table has a small computer monitor embedded in it. Chewbacca seems very pleased with himself as he rests his lanky fur-covered arms over his head. Luke rests his chin in his hands as he ponders a weighty problem on the board. Finally the stubby Artoo reaches up and moves one of the figures on the board. A sudden frown crosses Chewbacca's face and he begins yelling some gibberish at Artoo. Threepio intercedes on behalf of his small companion and begins to argue with the huge Wookiee.
A small tone sounds and the com-link crackles to life.
The cockpit is alive with humming meters and softly buzz- ing read-outs. Montross and Han are busy at the controls.
Luke enters; his boyish enthusiasm is working overtime.
Both Han and Montross are rather grim-faced.
Luke moves close and begins to search the viewing monitors.
Luke sits down in a state of shock. He stares blankly at the monitor read-outs. Han is very angry at this turn of events.
The young pirate captain grabs Luke and holds him high against the cockpit wall.
Luke clears his throat and snaps out of his depression.
Han puts the boy down and a scheme formulates in Luke's mind.
The word hits Han and Montross like a mad bantha; but Han recovers nicely, and thinks about it for a moment.
Montross gives the two boys a doubtful glance.
Han, Chewbacca, Luke, and the robots sit around a large table in the lounge area of the starship. Han and Luke are deep in thought. Luke sits up.
Montross enters the lounge area and sits down. He flexes his new left arm which was just replaced.
Everyone is lost in deep and perplexing thoughts. He is slightly amused at the young adventurer's dilemma.
Han slumps in his seat with a dejected look.
The long ornate pirate starship approaches the gray gaseous planet of Alderaan. The ship is not propelled, but simply drifts crab-like toward the planet. As it approaches the surface, huge billowing clouds extend out like menacing tentacles. The peacefulness of this nebulous idyll is broken by the increasing wail of ion engines. Suddenly, four sleek space fighters from the Imperial third fleet burst from the huge cumulus range. The craft are small cylindrical power shells dominated by two huge solar fins. They are flying in a tight formation; then two bank steeply and head toward the drifting starship.
The Imperial fighters are four-man craft crammed with sophis- ticated electronic weaponry.
The PILOT and GUNNERY OFFICER sit side by side, surrounded by lighted read-outs. They wear the gleaming black uni- forms of the dungeon guards.
Two laser bolts scream past the cockpit and explode in front of the drifting pirate ship.
The two tiny fighter craft orbit in front of the pirate star- ship as small plates shoot from their fins and attach them- selves to the larger craft. Lines pull taut and the pirate starship is towed among the towering gray clouds by the two little Imperial space fighters. The second two space fighters take up position behind the starship and follow it in.
The pilot is cold and professional as his craft closes in on the starship. The positions of the ships are displayed on a read-out. The pilot gives the gunner a quick look be- fore he flips his sun shield over his eyes.
The towering white oxide clouds pass, revealing the Imperial city of Alderaan. The magnificent domed and gleaming city is perched, mushroom-like, on a tall spire which disappears deep into the misty surface of the planet. The little pro- cession of spaceships speeds toward the city.
The pirate starship rests in a huge hangar bay which dwarfs the Corellian craft! Hundreds of troops work their way toward the craft under the cover of reflective shields. A battalion commander and two guards edge their way toward the main hatch. One of the guards aims a long laser rifle at the hatch. A commotion erupts behind the troops, and they turn to see two SITH KNIGHTS striding into the huge spaceport hangar. The two Sith knights appear slightly amused at the cautious stormtroopers. The battalion com- mander bows before the dark and fearsome Sith knights.
The Sith knights boldly approach the ship and swing open the hatch. They start to enter the ship when a loud clank- ing sound, somewhat like a wrench being dropped down an air shaft, startles them and they jump back. The Sith warriors ignite their laser swords simultaneously, and take a defen- sive stance. The hundred or so troopers duck behind their chrome shields and direct their laser weapons at the open hatch. A few more sounds are heard from within the giant starship. The tension becomes almost palpable. The gang- ling, bronze Threepio pops his "Art Deco" head out of the hatchway.
The two Sith knights give each other rather puzzled looks.
The first Sith knight turns back to the battalion commander.
The Sith knights leave the hangar as the troops shuffle on board the deserted vessel. Threepio seems confused as troops rush around, completely ignoring him.
The troops search the ship with small hand scanners. The commander and his aid enter the lounge. They are approached by a slender, weasel-like OFFICER.
A TROOPER approaches the group.
The troops begin to file out of the ship.
A lone trooper runs through the hallway heading for the exit. In a few moments, all is quiet. The muffled sounds of a distant officer giving orders finally fade. A sharp tapping can be heard very near, and a panel on a row of low cabinets crashes to the floor. Han Solo's head pokes out of the hole and looks around the hallway. He then pulls himself out of his cramped quarters and struts around, stretching his legs. A second locker breaks open and Luke emerges. Chewbacca pokes his furry head out of the first locker and Han tells him the way is clear.
Luke straightens himself out as Montross appears in his locker.
Luke, Han, Montross, Chewbacca, and little Artoo quietly make their way down a hallway to the lounge area, where four Imperial troopers stand guard. Luke peeks around the doorway, then whispers to Han.
Han repeats this to Chewbacca and they both grin with ex- cited, determined looks on their faces. Luke gives the signal as the Wookiee and the young Corellian pirate charge past him with their laser swords held high, screaming like wild banshees. Luke is somewhat confused by the attack. The yelling and the clash of swords echo throughout the ship. Montross holds his ears. Artoo runs and joins up with the shackled Threepio.
In the main control tower, next to the starship, a gantry officer looks up from his desk, as if he hears something. He turns to an aide who is busy readjusting a monitor.
The aide shakes his head; but the officer, convinced that he heard something, leaves the control tower and heads for the pirate ship.
The gantry officer cautiously enters the pirate starship with his laser pistol drawn. Everything is quiet in the lounge area. Two guards sit at a table with a third stand- ing over them. The fourth guard approaches the gantry officer.
The guard is Han Solo. He struggles to hide a large blood stain under his right arm.
The gantry officer shakes his head at the puzzlement.
The guard standing at the table is Luke; and as he turns to glance at the gantry officer, one of the guards sitting at the table topples over and lands with his face on the floor. The gantry officer raises his pistol and immediately becomes suspicious. An embarrassed grin breaks out on Luke and Han's faces. With a swiftness rivaling a Jedi prince, Han knocks the gun from the gantry officer's hand and decks him. Luke runs over to help Han, and Montross, Chewbacca and the robots rush in.
Han starts to change jackets with the gantry officer.
Luke binds the huge Chewbacca with electronic cuffs. The Wookiee has a worried and slightly frightened look on his face. Han reassures him, straightens his jacket and they start off into the giant Imperial city of Alderaan. Han and Luke walk on either side of the giant Chewbacca and Artoo and Threepio reluctantly follow along behind. Montross stays aboard the starship and carefully and quietly closes the hatch.
A lone aide is quietly working on a monitor when Chewbacca, the huge Wookiee, appears in the doorway with a bone-chilling howl. A look of surprise, awe, and sheer dread crosses the aide's face as he stumbles over his tools. The Wookiee flattens him with one blow. Threepio and Artoo waddle into the room, followed by Han and Luke guarding the rear.
Threepio and Artoo look over the control panel, until Artoo finds something which gets him excited.
Han and Luke rush over to the robots. Chewbacca busies himself with hanging the control aide by his toes.
Artoo punches his claw arm into a computer socket, and the vast Imperial brain network comes to life, feeding informa- tion to the little robot. After a few moments, he beeps something to Threepio.
Han puts the electronic bonds back on Chewbacca and the trio starts out the door.
Han and Luke try to look inconspicuous, as they wait for a vacuum elevator to arrive. Troops and bureaucrats bustle about ignoring the trio completely; only a few give the giant Wookiee a curious glance. Finally, a small elevator arrives, and the trio enter. A bureaucrat races to get aboard also, but is signaled away by Han. The door to the pod-like vehicle slides closed, and it takes off through a vacuum tube.
He rubs his hand across a series of small holes.
Han gives him a skeptical look.
The giant Wookiee and his two guards enter the old, gray security station. Guards and laser gates are everywhere. Han whispers to Luke under his breath.
A tall, grim-looking officer approaches the trio.
The officer goes back to his console and begins to punch in the information. There are only three other troopers in the area. Luke and Han survey the situation, checking all of the alarms, laser gates and camera eyes. Han unfastens one of Chewbacca's electronic cuffs and shrugs to Luke.
Suddenly, Chewbacca throws up his hands and lets out with one of his ear-piercing howls. He grabs Han's laser sword and ignites it, pushing Han against the wall.
The startled guards are momentarily dumbfounded. Luke and Han have already pulled out their laser pistols and are blasting away at the terrifying Wookiee. Their barrage of laser fire misses Chewbacca, but hits the camera eyes, laser gate controls, and the Imperial guards. The officer is the last to fall under the laser fire just as he starts to push the alarm system. Luke rushes over to the com-link system, which is screeching questions about what is going on. Han and Chewbacca disappear down one of the sub-hallways.
He blasts some of the furniture with his laser pistol and it bursts into flames, creating a lot of smoke.
Han and Chewbacca race down the rows of low, stone-cell doors. Han stops before cell 2187 and yells something to Chewbacca, who covers his face as the young pirate blasts the door away with his laser pistol. When the smoke clears, Han looks in the cell and an expression of horror crosses his face.
Suspended inside the cell by invisible rays, a bloody and mutilated Deak Starkiller hangs upside down. A strange yellow glow radiates from his eyes. Chewbacca rushes into the cell past the dazed Han. The Wookiee yells something and Han comes to, firing his pistol at a small control box in the wall. The unconscious Deak drops like a rock into the giant Wookiee's arms. Chewbacca slings him over his shoulders, and joins Han in the hallway.
Smoke fills the small control center as Luke fiddles with the wires on the control board.
A series of explosions at the main doorway knock a hole in the wall through which several Imperial troops begin to emerge. Luke fires his laser pistol at them through the smoke and flames. He turns and runs down a sub-hallway, stopping only for a moment on the far side of the passage- way to lock on the laser gate "cutters". He takes a small com-link transmitter from his belt and speaks into it.
Threepio paces the control center as little Artoo beeps and whistles a blue streak. Threepio yells into the small com- link transmitter.
The transmitter squawks a short reply, and Threepio peeks out the tower window at the starship. All is quiet. He then moves to the door and it slides open a crack. Several troops rush past, yelling and shouting orders. Threepio slams the door shut, and pushes the lock lever.
Han and Chewbacca rush toward the detention control complex, but are met by Luke running toward them.
Luke notices his mutilated brother draped over Chewbacca's shoulders. His mouth drops open in stunned shock.
The trio turns and runs down the cell block passageway. They reach a small grate in the wall, covering a passage that leads down into a deep darkness.
Luke and Han pull up the rusty grate, and they disappear into the black passageway.
Han leads the group down the ever-darkening, narrow passage- way. Their footsteps echo on the cold stone steps of the winding, descending stairway. Han and Luke switch on small lights in their gunbelts. The rhythmic marching of storm- troops is heard behind them. Han stops the group before an intersecting hallway. The marching troops seem to be getting louder; muffled voices can be heard.
They continue down the eerie, slimy corridor that gets nar- rower and narrower as they descend into the bowels of the city.
A loud buzzer sounds throughout the control tower. Threepio rushes to the computer console.
He switches on the control com-link.
The passageway has gotten so small that Han, Luke and Chewbacca must walk sideways. Suddenly the way opens up to a wide, low ceiling corridor that is very dark and dank.
The group runs along the foul-smelling passageway.
A loud, horrible, inhuman moan works its way up from the far end of the passageway and stops the group dead in its tracks. They exchange rather worried looks.
Chewbacca jabbers something to Han.
They start forward; but the giant Wookiee stops and howls something at Han. The young captain talks to the frightened creature and eventually calms him down, and they slowly con- tinue forward. Barely perceivable, a dim light glimmers at the far end of the hallway.
The group picks up speed as it nears the light. Suddenly, a huge form blocks out the light, and Chewbacca lets out a terrified howl and begins to back away. Han and Luke stand fast with their laser pistols drawn. Han calls back to the Wookiee, who begins to cower near one of the damp walls.
The huge shape, breathing loud and deep, sloshes forward.
The two boys begin to slowly walk backwards as the horrible DAI NOGA begins its cumbersome advance.
Han turns and rushes back to Chewbacca, who is huddled against the wall, with the unconscious Deak lying by his side. The Wookiee is shaking and wailing like a small child. In the thin light provided by the small door at the end of the passageway, the faint outline of the grue- some Dai Noga can be perceived. Luke, with shaking hands, fires directly at the center of the beast. His laser bolt passes through the huge creature and explodes against a far wall. The light from the blast reveals a little more of the thing, which is something like a cross between a huge spider and a giant squid.
Han has blindfolded Chewbacca, and attempts to lead the Wookiee carrying Deak around the terrifying Dai Noga. They edge their way along the corridor wall as Luke fires a second blast at the slime. The Dai Noga lets out with a horrible moan and lumbers towards Luke with a new vigor. Luke backs away firing as he goes. Han and Chewbacca make it to the door and watch the Dai Noga move after Luke.
He fires a shot at the monster, but it continues after Luke.
Han fires again, this time above the creature, knocking rocks and debris on top of him. He turns to face his new enemy, enabling Luke to creep around the Dai Noga and join Han and Chewbacca. The spider-like monster lets out a moan and leaps at the two youths. Chewbacca has worked loose the iron grate covering the doorway, and the group tumbles into a dusty, unused hallway.
The Dai Noga bangs against the opening and a long slimy tentacle works its way out of the doorway searching for a victim. Han aims his pistol.
Han fires at the doorway, creating an avalanche of rubble which buries the monster.
The noise of the blast echoes relentlessly throughout the passageway. Luke simply shakes his head at the young cap- tain. They get up and start down the passageway. Han is clearly bothered by Luke's low opinion of his actions.
He snaps his fingers as Luke gives him a skeptical look.
Threepio nervously paces the control room.
Luke and Han stand before a bay window overlooking the pi- rate starship. They watch as a platoon of Imperial storm- troopers take up guard positions outside the craft. An officer attempts to open the hatch and enter the ship, but is unsuccessful. He exits the docking bay in a hurry.
The two boys rush down the hallway, followed by the lumber- ing Chewbacca carrying Deak. They round a corner and run smack dab into twelve Imperial stormtroopers heading toward them. Both groups are taken by surprise, and stop in their tracks. Before even thinking, Han draws his laser sword and charges the troops, yelling at the top of his lungs. The troops are startled by this assault and start to back off. Han manages to cut several down before the rest flee in panic. Pleased with his prowess, Han starts after them, yelling back to Luke as he goes.
Han has already rounded a corner and does not hear. Luke rushes Chewbacca to the doorway at the end of the hallway. He motions the Wookiee to go on.
Han chases the ten stormtroopers down a long sub-hallway. He is yelling and brandishing his laser sword. The troops reach a dead end and are forced to turn and fight. Han stops a few feet from them and assumes a defensive position. He is ready to cut them down. The troops begin to ignite their laser swords; soon all ten troopers are moving into an attack position in front of the lone star pirate. Han's determined look begins to fade as the troops begin to ad- vance.
Luke runs down the sub-hallway in a last-ditch attempt to save his bold friend. Suddenly he hears the clamor of laser swords and yelling. Around the corner shoots Han Solo, pirate extraordinaire, running for his life, followed by a host of furious stormtroopers. Luke turns and starts running the other way, also. They run around several cor- ners, and the troops drop a ways behind. Luke squeezes down a side passage and signals for Han to follow.
Luke and Han run down the narrow passageway looking for an exit. The stormtroopers can be heard barking orders as they follow the duo. An officer at the far end of the hall- way spots them and fires a laser blast at them, but misses. They reach a complex blast-shield door which they attempt to open by pushing a series of buttons on a lock switch. The several layers of hatches and locks slowly peel away. Han returns the laser fire of the gathered stormtroopers at the end of the hallway. The signal on their belt com- links begins to buzz. Luke takes one in hand and gets a jumble of excited Wookiee gibberish. He hands the small com-link receiver to Han, who continues his barrage of the troopers.
Han talks to the Wookiee and seems to be in some kind of an argument.
Chewbacca is crouched behind some supply cannisters near the main entrance to the spaceport bay. Stormtroopers march to and fro in front of the pirate starship. The giant Wookiee whispers into the com-link. Deak lies in a heap at his feet. Chewbacca ducks lower as several troops stop almost on top of him. He puts the com-link back on his belt and draws Deak close to him.
Han gives the com-link back to Luke.
The final hatch starts to swing open behind them.
They turn and start into the main spaceport causeway. A few feet into the hallway and the boys stop short. Two evil, BLACK KNIGHTS OF THE SITH stride toward them. Luke turns and runs back into the narrow passageway.
Han jumps back into the narrow passageway and Luke pulls the main blast-shield lock switch. The five layers of door instantly slam shut.
Luke shrugs his shoulders. The stormtroopers renew their assault.
The two Sith knights stop before the huge blast-shield door. Stormtroopers take up position behind them. One of the knights turns to the first officer of the guard.
The troops scurry out of the way, as the Sith knights raise their arms over their heads, creating a powerful force field.
The mighty blast-shield door bulges under the pressure of the Sith para-force. Luke spots a small waste receptacle on the wall. He fires a few shots at the assembled storm- troopers at the far end of the corridor, and moves to the garbage chute. He motions for Han to follow, but the young starcaptain is sitting in a corner staring blankly at the bulging door. Luke runs back to him.
The giant hinge bolts on the blast-shield door begin to pop as the force of the Sith knights grows stronger. Luke fires off a rapid series of shots and half-drags Han to the small grate in the wall.
Luke blasts the cover off the debris receptacle and shoves Han into the small opening. The giant blast door begins to smolder, creating a smoky cover for the boys to hide in. Luke frantically blasts away at the advancing stormtroopers, then climbs into the garbage chute and disappears.
Luke slides through a series of chutes until he winds up in a large room full of muck. Han is already stumbling around looking for an exit. He finds a small hatchway and struggles to get it open.
He draws his laser pistol and fires at the hatch. The laser bolt ricochets wildly around the small metal room. Both Luke and Han dive for cover in the garbage as the bolt ex- plodes almost on top of them. Luke climbs out of the gar- bage with a rather grim look on his face.
Before Han can reply, the walls of the garbage receptacle begin to rumble and edge toward the adventurers.
They place poles and long metal beams between the closing walls; but they are simply snapped and bent and the giant trash masher rumbles on. The situation doesn't look good.
The room gets smaller and smaller, until it is only three feet wide. Garbage is snapping and popping as it is crushed by the relentless walls. Luke's com-link begins to buzz, and he pulls it off his belt.
The rumbling walls begin to shake the room, and then they halt. Han breathes a sigh of relief. Luke goes over to the pressure hatch and scrapes some muck off a number.
In a moment, the door pops open.
Two Imperial officers stand in the hallway leading to the spaceport. One of the officers is a fleet admiral. They spot Artoo and Threepio waddling towards them and can hardly believe their eyes.
Before they can do anything about it, Han and Luke jump the officers from behind, and put laser swords to their necks. The robots trundle up to them.
Han and Luke, dragging their hostages in front of them, enter the starship bay. Artoo and Threepio hurry in be- hind them. The twenty or so troops guarding the starship train their weapons on the group, but seeing an admiral held as hostage, hesitate. Chewbacca jumps out from be- hind the supply cannisters, carrying Deak over his shoulder, and joins the group. They slowly make their way toward the starship, which is a medley of noises, as it prepares for take-off. The main hatch slides open.
The troops aim their laser rifles. The admiral panics.
The group enters the starship and the hatch slams shut.
Han slides into the co-pilot seat. Montross gives him a big smile.
Montross pulls back on the controls and the ship begins to move. The dull thud of laser bolts can be heard bouncing off the outside of the ship.
The starship lifts away from the starship bay and moves into the cloud sea of Alderaan. Troops continue to fire at the ship as it leaves. Too late, four Sith knights arrive.
Han picks up the com-link.
He points out the cockpit window to four small Imperial fighters banking in on their right side.
Luke is busy checking out one of the two main laser cannons mounted in large rotating bubble turrets. He adjusts his head-phones, and searches his electronic tracking screen for the Imperial fighters.
Han jumps into the turret opposite Luke, and begins to strap himself in. The pirate starship shudders as the Imperial fighters open fire. Luke's turret swings around and he be- gins to return the fire. Moments later, Han lowers his glare reflector and with a burst of smoke and electrical charge also opens up on the enemy craft. One of the Imperial fighters is hit by a concentrated barrage and begins spin- ning out of control, until it finally explodes. Han gives Luke a victory wave, which Luke gleefully returns.
Imperial fighters buzz about everywhere. The constant flash- ing of deflected laser bolts reflect in the interior of the turret bubble. Chewbacca sits in an aft turret, blazing away at the enemy craft. A huge explosion rocks the pirate ship and throws Artoo and Threepio crashing against a pas- sageway wall.
Over the com-link, Montross gives instructions as to the enemy formations. Several more Imperial ships explode and disappear from view. The pirate starship undergoes a great deal of punishment as the battle rages.
Several of the Imperial fighters concentrate their fire on a weakened port antenna and finally it explodes, opening a hole in one of the compartments and everything that isn't bolted down is sucked into outer space. Threepio and Artoo struggle to push a large cabinet in front of the hole.
The cockpit is alive with warning lights and buzzers, but Montross manages to keep things under control. He speaks into the com-link.
Montross pulls back on several of the levers before him, and the ship surges away from the tiny fighters. The pi- rate starship races through the galaxy at an incredible speed; but it isn't long before the Imperial fighters catch up.
Luke, Han and Chewbacca fire away at the now stationary Imperial craft. One explodes, then another, and before long, they are all congratulating each other on their vic- tory.
DISSOLVE TO:
Luke kneels over what's left of his brother. Han stands in the doorway watching as Threepio applies some medication to the Jedi's gaping wounds.
Han simply shakes his head at the situation.
Han turns and leaves Luke and Threepio alone with Deak.
Threepio turns and leaves, locking the cabin door behind him.
Luke slumps over his brother and begins to weep quietly. Suddenly he remembers the Kiber Crystal hidden in his belt.
He takes off his belt and fumbles to open the secret com- partment. The buckle snaps open and a powerful clear light fills the darkened room. The Kiber Crystal's glow is al- most blinding. Luke takes the supernatural gem and places it in his injured brother's hand. Luke suddenly sits bolt upright. A thought seems to come to him and he dashes out of the cabin.
Luke bursts into the lounge area where Chewbacca and Han are sprawled across the chairs, sound asleep. They wake with a start. Chewbacca draws his laser sword.
Chewbacca blurts out a long line of gibberish to Han.
Han thinks about this for a few moments, then throws up his hands.
DISSOLVE TO:
Montross is upset and starts yelling at Han and Luke.
Luke slams a connector panel on the computer console.
Montross starts to bring his arm down across the computer console to make his point, but Han grabs it in time to keep it from being dashed to bits.
A sing-song alarm goes off on the scanner console. Threepio, who has been quietly sitting in the co-pilot's seat all through the argument, interrupts his master.
Montross looks into the scanner display.
DISSOLVE TO:
The sleek pirate starship drifts into orbit around the emerald green, fourth moon of YAVIN.
Montross and Han are at the controls, as Luke rushes into the cockpit.
A light begins to flash on the computer board.
Luke rushes out of the cockpit.
Two small lifepods jettison away from the starship, and slowly drift toward the awesome, deep green surface of the moon. Retro-rockets automatically kick in and slow the pods. The two tiny craft break through some light cloud cover and land in the dense, steaming jungles of Yavin's fourth moon.
One of the lifepods has come to rest in the middle of a bog.
Han, Chewbacca, and Threepio emerge from the battered cap- sule as it slowly sinks into the murky swamp.
Chewbacca inspects a huge laser weapon and straps several power packs to his bandoliers. The group ventures into a forest of gargantuan trees shrouded in an eerie mist. The air is heavy with the fantastic cries of unimaginable creatures.
Luke's lifepod is caught in the limbs of a huge tree. The fragile craft has been ripped in half by the crash land- ing. A glass-enclosed mummy case containing the wounded Deak Starkiller is securely strapped in what remains of the tiny lifepod. But his unconscious brother, Luke, hangs half out of the damaged craft. A two-foot high insect- like creature scoots down a branch and onto the back of the dormant warrior. The insect lets out a chilling his- sing sound, and a slimy tube emerges from its hairy mouth, waking Luke. He opens his eyes, but doesn't move. He is immediately aware of the insect. Suddenly, with one quick blow, he knocks the creature against the side of the life- pod, and it is squashed lifeless.
Luke is a little groggy, but he manages to climb out of the wreckage. He hears a frantic whistle, pathetic in its desperation. Luke looks around and spots Artoo hanging up- side down, one of his three feet caught in a vine. Luke lifts the stubby robot out of his predicament and places him securely on a wide limb. Luke then attaches a thin cable from his utility belt to the tree trunk, and slides to the ground. Han and Threepio are waiting for him at the base of the huge tree.
Chewbacca emerges from the dense foliage and tells Han something. He tells Chewbacca to climb the tree and get Deak.
Gruesome and unnatural sounds permeate this ghostly waste- land. The jungle is a strange and eerie, fog-laden purga- tory. The group stops on a ridge overlooking the rebel outpost of MASASSI. All that can be seen of the fortress is a lone guard standing on a small pedestal jutting out above the dense jungle. Suddenly, three Aquillian rangers break out of the dark foliage and approach the group. Han and Chewbacca raise their weapons.
One of the rangers strides forward, ignoring Han's laser pistol. He is a tall man; on his helmet is the crest of AQUILLAE. He advances until he is standing a few feet from Luke's weapon.
Han looks a little puzzled, but lowers his weapon and tells Chewbacca to do likewise. About two dozen rangers emerge from the brush and take up positions around the group. One of them speaks to Chewbacca in his own tongue, and the giant Wookiee lowers Deak onto a stretcher they have placed before him.
Antilles bows low before Luke. The young adventurer is embarrassed and doesn't know how to respond. Finally the ranger rises.
Luke, Han, Chewbacca, the robots and Aquillian rangers ride on top of a low, gray armored transport speeder. They swing past a long line of gleaming spacefighters sitting along the edge or the vast jungle runway. The several different types of two-man fighter craft have a wide variety of mark- ings. Several of the ships have bizarre and colorful de- signs painted across their large deflector fins, which trans- forms the crafts into huge and grotesque creatures, while others create beautiful and unique mosaic patterns. Ground crews rush about servicing the craft. Activity is at a fever pitch as Luke, Han and Antilles disembark the speeder and enter a low metal building to one side of the runway.
The war room is a mass of glass enclosures, electronic wall displays, monitors and computer stations. Officers and aides rush to and fro, ignoring Luke and Han as they follow Major Antilles to a large, dimly lit conference room domi- nated by a huge galactic display board. A briefing is in progress. Several dozen officers sit around a long table as a young astro-general named DODANA is describing an attack plan to the others. Antilles stops Han just outside the door as two braided guards approach them.
Han gives Luke a look of betrayal and anger.
Luke follows Antilles into the conference room and a glass door slides silently closed behind them.
Antilles and Luke sit in chairs at the back of the room. Several officers at the table glance at Luke, but for the most part their attention remains riveted on General Dodana.
Several large projections of a huge, armored space station appear behind Dodana. One angle shows the north pole of the complex globe. Six black towers dominate the detailed portion of the sphere. Antilles whispers something to Luke who answers with a question. Antilles points to a dark corner of the room near Dodana. Luke strains to see something in the corner. His hand fingers his belt buckle and he turns to Antilles and nods yes.
A large, sallow-eyed General named AAY ZAVOR fiddles ner- vously with a small hand computer.
A flight officer with a patch over one eye rises.
The GRANDE MOUFF TARKIN, a thin, bird-like commander of the outland Kesselian Dragoons, stands, and Dodana sits down, revealing behind and to one side of him a wizened old man with long silver hair -- THE STARKILLER. He is apparently asleep; but as the Grande Mouff rises, the Starkiller's crystal-clear eyes open knowingly. An aura of power radiates from the ancient Jedi that almost knocks Tarkin over. The Starkiller is a large man, but shriveled and bent by an incalculable number of years. His face, cracked and weathered by exotic climates, is set off by a long silver beard and penetrating gray-blue eyes. Luke stares at him in awe. He's at once proud, moved and slightly frightened.
There is a long pause, as most of the officers on the Grande Mouff's side of the table look down at their fidgeting hands or nervously look away.
The Starkiller sits unmoved, unresponding. Zavor jumps to his feet in great anger and despair.
Finally Antilles can stand it no longer.
The room falls silent. The bent and broken Starkiller rises and Tarkin and Zavor immediately sit down. He motions for Luke to join him at the head of the table. Luke hurries to his father's side and hands him the Kiber Crystal. The Starkiller holds up the powerful stone and it radiates a brilliant light throughout the room. Years seem to drop from the old man as the Kiber's force moves into his body.
One of the younger officers stands up.
Several other officers stand, also.
More officers and Generals join in until even Zavor and Tarkin are standing.
Luke is embraced by his father in the cool, dim quiet of the outpost electronic library.
Artoo and Threepio enter the room and bow low before their master and his father.
They bow low and leave the room. Antilles ushers Han into the office. Antilles bows low before the Starkiller and his son. Han feels quite awkward standing before the legendary galactic hero. He gives the old man a short bow, then gives Luke a slight nod.
He hands the young starcaptain a small box containing many neatly minted chrome bars. Han's mouth drops open in amaze- ment.
Luke bows his head and is clearly disappointed. He steps forward and gives Han a gray gunbelt with a chrome laser sword attached.
He gives Han a hug, and the young starcaptain leaves.
A small silver rebel ship edges close to the pirate star- ship, until the two craft link up.
Han and Chewbacca enter the starship and are greeted by Montross. Han gives him the box of chrome bars.
Han has a wistful look in his eyes as Montross heads back to the cockpit.
Chaos. Red scramble lights are flashing. Alert horns and attack buzzers create an unbelievable cacophony. Star- pilots in a variety of different style spacesuits scramble out of the low concrete ready room, grabbing helmets and space packs as they race out the doors.
Pilots and navigators dash in unison to a long line of wait- ing two-man starship fighters. Around it, crews scurry here and there loading last minute armament and unlocking power couplings. Luke, closely followed by Artoo and Threepio, meet Antilles in front of one of the sleek star- ships.
On a balcony overlooking the runway appears the dazzling figure of the Starkiller. His long silver hair and beard cascade over his flowing white robes. The Kiber Crystal glitters in his right hand. The pilots and crews stop what they are doing and bow low toward the honored Jedi. Luke and the robots join the others in the tribute. The air warriors are a wide mix of humans and other creatures from the many systems in the Alliance.
The pilots and crews bow and hurry to their starships. Luke helps Threepio lift Artoo into the ship. PILOT LEADER, a rugged, handsome man in his forties, gives his ground crew the signal that he is starting his ion engine. He has a winning smile and a distinctive scar along the side of his face. His crew chief pats him on the back.
The canopy is closed and the powerful starship moves onto the runway. Luke and Antilles settle into their craft as their crew looks down the armament housing.
He hangs a small good-luck charm inside the cockpit as the main canopy starts to slide closed. Luke and Antilles wave back to him. Other crewmen say goodbye to their pilots, some grinning, some kidding -- all with a great deal of hidden emotion. The din of retro-rockets cuts through the uproar, and six silver starships leave the runway and dis- appear into the morning cloud cover.
The Starkiller sits quietly before a giant computer display of the Yavin system. It shows the planet, moons and approach- ing Death Star. The Grande Mouff Tarkin stands behind the Jedi with several other Generals.
General Dodana approaches the group and leans over to the Starkiller.
A small bright speck orbiting the huge green moon of Yavin sparkles in the light of the distant sun. Six rebel star ships settle ominously into the foreground, moving swiftly toward the orbiting speck. As the starships move closer, the awesome size of the gargantuan Imperial space fortress is revealed. Explosions create blinding flashes on the planet's surface as the Imperial fortress bombards the moon with a fusillade of laser bolts.
Pilot Leader, in the first ship, signals to his navigator who sits in a small isolated glass bubble to the rear of the craft. The many monitors are filled with various com- puter read-outs and displays. Over the com-link one of the other starpilots reports to Pilot Leader.
Luke adjusts the controls of the tiny starfighter and lowers the sunshade on his goggles. Antilles and Threepio rotate around in the gun-pod.
Fuel pods are jettisoned. The starship fighters break off into a power-dive attack on the space fortress. A barrage of laser fire from the huge fortress creates a wall of death, through which most of the rebel craft miraculously emerge, undamaged. Multiple laser bolts streak from the starship fighters, creating small explosions on the complex surface of the fort. Antilles directs his fire at one of the prime power terminals. It explodes, generating weird electronic arcs that leap off the station's surface.
Walls buckle and cave in, sucking debris and personnel into the vacuum of space. Alarm sirens scream as soldiers scram- ble to large turbo-powered laser gun emplacements. Officers yell orders through the smoke and confusion. Men and robots of various shapes and sizes run to their battle stations. Standing in the middle of the chaos, a vision of calm and foreboding, is the evil Sith knight: Darth Vader. Several astro-officers run up to him, still putting on the helmets and equipment.
Generals and troops listen silently to the action of the starships over the com-link. The Starkiller seems to be asleep, but no one attempts to waken him.
The Starkiller's eyes open as the tension mounts. He has not been asleep.
A sigh of relief sweeps across the war room. The computers flash off and then on again as the whole room shakes under the Death Star's bombardment of a nearby ridge.
125. EXT. SPACE AROUND FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN - BATTLE - REBEL FIGHTERS (BOMA GROUP)
Six fin winged Imperial fighters dive on Pilot Leader, but he does a quick spiral turn and eludes them.
Pilot Leader and Boma Four dive in unison through a forest of radar domes, antennae and gun towers. They are followed by four Imperial TIE fighters. The two rebel ships make a sharp turn and come around behind the Imperial ships. Boma Four and Pilot Leader fire into the TIE fighters as the six ships criss-cross the surface of the fortress.
Suddenly, a dense barrage of laser fire erupts from a pro- truding tower, catching Boma Four broadside. The rebel spacecraft bursts into a million flaming pieces. Pilot Leader reacts to the loss of his wing man with a renewed attack on the Imperial ships -- one of which falls away and hits a prime power terminal, creating an arching spec- tacle. A chain reaction is set off, creating a series of explosions leaping across the surface of the fortress from terminal to terminal.
Luke and three other speedy little fighters dart back and forth across the soft underbelly of the fortress, leaving a trail of destruction behind them. Artoo is sitting on the seat-back above Threepio's shoulders. He is beeping and whistling frantically. Threepio swings his gun pod around and begins firing at an approaching Imperial TIE ship.
The rebel craft dives on the Imperial ships, all guns blast- ing away. Two of the TIE craft go down in flames.
Constant explosions rock the interior of the fortress. Troops scurry for safety in the panic-ridden control center. A Sith knight speaks to Lord Vader on the com-link.
Boma Two (Chewie), a young hot-shot of about sixteen years, miraculously dives his ship through a virtual sea of laser fire and blasts the Imperial fighters into dust. Chewie signals to his navigator, who lets out a whooping cheer as the craft veers into a victory roll.
Boma Five and Boma Three bob and weave in formation toward a group of giant towers at the north pole.
Boma Three wobbles a little, then drops away sharply, plow- ing into a huge laser gun emplacement, causing a hideous series of chain reaction explosions. The four remaining starships of the Boma group fly in a tight formation and dive between the tall towers near the exhaust port.
Several ack-ack lasers begin to open fire on the approach- ing spacecraft. The rebel ships direct their fire at a small, glowing blue hole at the base of one of the towers. Boma Five explodes, quickly followed by Boma Four.
Boma Two dives directly at the small target, is unable to pull out and crashes into the base of one of the towers. Pilot Leader dives between the towers, firing away, but is unable to hit the small hole.
One of the two large engines on Pilot Leader's fighter ex- plodes. He careens wildly, leaving an erratic trail of smoke before eventually crashing into a solar panel.
On the large computer display board, several of the markers indicating rebel fighters go dark. General Dodana approaches the Starkiller in a hurry.
Zavos steps forward in a panic.
The Starkiller gives Zavos a hard look and the cowardly General shakes as if a cold wind had chilled him to his heart.
The General's eyes turn back to the big board as two more symbols disappear. The four that are left are flying in formation toward the north pole exhaust port.
Luke swings the small craft around the many outcroppings of laser towers and transmitters.
The fortress gun emplacements fire away, hitting Banta Three. It disintegrates, leaving a trail of flaming parti- cles. The three remaining craft continue the assault. Luke and Antilles watch the remains of Banta Three disap- pear.
The rebel craft blast away at the exhaust port, but all miss.
Lord Vader and two other Imperial ships wait for the rebel craft to emerge from the smoke and confusion of the exhaust port area.
The three rebel starships bank and prepare for a second attack on the exhaust port. Suddenly, streaking down from above them, the Imperial TIE craft blaze away with all their laser cannons.
Banta Four instantly bursts into flames, then disintegrates. Banta One's tail section is hit, and the ship pinwheels toward the planet. Blood covers Antilles' face. Luke struggles to keep control of the ship. Artoo is whistling wildly as Threepio swings the gun turret around to fire at the enemy craft.
The tiny rebel fighter dives toward the exhaust port, but is cut off and forced to turn away from Vader's ship.
The three Imperial craft dive on the lone rebel starfighter. Laser bolts streak past the small craft on all sides. Vader moves close in behind Luke's ship.
Vader signals his wing men to back off.
Suddenly, Vader's wing man explodes into a shower of burn- ing fragments. Vader is surprised and looks around for the cause of his wing man's misfortune.
Before SR-2 can answer, he too is blasted out of orbit. Vader quickly veers off and takes defensive maneuvers. Above and behind the Imperial fighters the old familiar pirate starship descends into view.
Han grins at Montross and speaks into the com-link.
Luke dives the tiny ship once again into the wall of laser fire around the exhaust port. The pirate ship follows a short distance behind, but begins to bounce about as it nears the generating tower.
Vader's starship swoops down on the battered pirate ship, unleashing a heavy barrage of laser bolts. Chewbacca in the rear gun turret blazes away at the Sith starship. One of Vader's huge solar fins breaks up, but the Black Knight manages to keep the disabled craft on course and crash dives into the pirate craft, exploding on impact.
Han and Montross work their way through the damaged ship, looking for a usable life pod. Chewbacca appears at the end of a hallway and yells at Han to follow him.
Luke dives past the towers and approaches the exhaust port.
The ship skims the surface of the Death Star, blasting a thin path across its surface. As they pass the exhaust port, both Threepio and Antilles get several shots directly down the exhaust shaft.
The small craft veers sharply away from the Death Star as ominous rumbles and explosions can be heard coming from within the huge super fortress. The rebel ship speeds past the small lifepod from the pirate ship as it slowly drifts toward the green calm of Yavin's Fourth Moon. Han, Montross and the furry Chewbacca watch the ominous fortress grow smaller as they drift further and further away. Suddenly, a great flash replaces the fortress and rubble streaks past the lifepod and lone rebel starship. Several giant explo- sions follow, until there is only a smoke cloud where the mighty fortress once orbited Yavin's Fourth Moon.
DISSOLVE TO:
Luke climbs out of the starship as a ground crew help the wounded Antilles from the shattered gun turret. Artoo is helped down by Threepio. Antilles gives Luke a big grin. Luke slaps Threepio on the back. He then spots Han, Montross and Chewbacca riding up in a transport speeder. Luke runs up and hugs the Corellian pirates. They all laugh and cheer.
The white-robed Starkiller approaches the group, followed by a hundred aides, troops, ground crews, and Generals.
Antilles and the robots join Han, Luke and the others. As the Starkiller approaches, they all bow low, including Chewbacca and the robots.
A ROLL-UP TITLE appears:
...And a thousand new systems joined the rebellion, causing a significant crack in the great wall of the powerful Galactic Empire. The Starkiller would once again spark fear in the hearts of the Sith knights, but not before his sons were put to many tests...the most daring of which was the kidnapping of the Lars family, and the perilous search for:
"The Princess of Ondos."
FADE OUT:
END CREDITS.