 Bloody kids.
 Oh no no no my Lord Voldemort. I only meant... perhaps if we were
                to do it without the boy.. 
 NO! The boy is everything, it cannot be done without him and it
                WILL be done exactly as I say. 
 I will not disappoint you my lord. 
 Good. First, gather our old comrades. Send them a sign.
 Nagini tells me the old caretaker is standing outside the
                    door.
 Step aside so I can give our guest a proper greeting. 
 Harry!
 Are you alright? 
 Hermione. Bad dream. When did you get here? 
 Just now. You? 
 Last night.
 Wake up. Wake up Ronald! 
 Bloody hell. 
 Honestly. Get dressed, and don't go back to sleep. Come on Ron!
                Your mother says breakfast's ready. 
 Where are we actually going? 
 Don't know. Hey Dad! Where are we going? 
 Haven't the foggiest, keep up! 
 Arthur! It's about time son. 
 Sorry Amos. Some of us had a bit of a sleepy start. This is Amos
                Diggory everyone, he works with me at the ministry. And this strapping young lad
                must be Cedric, am I right? 
 Yes sir. 
 Merlin's beard, you must be Harry Potter. 
 Yes sir. This way. 
 Great great pleasure.
 Pleasure to meet you too sir.
 That's it sir, just over there. 
 Shall we? We don't want to be late.
 Why are they all standing around that manky old boot? 
 That isn't just any old manky boot mate. 
 It's a portkey.
 Time to go. Ready? 
 What's a 'portkey'? 
 After 3. One... Two... 
 Harry!
 Three!
 Let go kids! 
 What?? 
 Let! Go!
 I bet that cleared your sinuses eh?
 Thanks.
 Well kids, welcome to the Quidditch World Cup!
 Parting of the waves I think old chap, see you at the match.
 See ya later Cedric. 
 Home sweet home. 
 Girls. Choose a bunk and unpack. Ron, get out of the kitchen we're
                all hungry. 
 Yeah get out of the kitchen Ron. 
 Feet off the table. 
 Feet off the table.

                
 I love magic. 
 Blimey Dad, how far up ARE we?
 Well put it this way, if it rains... you'll be the first to
                know 
 Father and I are in the minister's box, by personal invitation of
                Cornelius Fudge himself. 
 Don't boast Draco. There's no need with these people. Do enjoy
                yourself won't you. While you can.
 Come on up, take your seats. I told you these seats would be worth
                waiting for. 
 Come on! 
 It's the Irish!
 Here come the Bulgarians!
 Krum!!! 
 Yes!
 Good evening! It gives me great pleasure to welcome each and every
                one of you to the final of the 422nd Quidditch World Cup. Let the match begin! 
 There's no one like Krum. He's like a bird the way he rides the wind.
                He's more than an athlete, he's an artist.
 Think you're in love Ron? 

                
 Viktor I love you! Viktor I do!
 When we're apart my heart beats only for youuu! 
 Sounds like the irish have got their pride on. 
 Stop! Stop it. It's not the irish. We've gotta get out of here.
                Now. 
 Get back to the portkey everybody, and stick together. Fred,
                George... Ginny is your responsibility.
 Been looking for you for ages. Thought we lost you. 
 What is THAT?
 Stop! That's my son.
 Ron, Harry, Hermione are you alright? 
 Which of you conjured this? 
 You can't possibly.. 
 Do not lie! You have been discovered at the scene of the crime! 
 Crime? 
 Barty, they're just kids. 
 What crime? 
 Harry it's his mark. 
 Those people tonight, in the masks... they're his too aren't they?
                they're his followers. 
 Follow me. 
 There was a man. Before. There. 
 All of you, this way. 
 Harry, who? 
 I dunno. I didn't see his face. 

                
 Anything from the trolley? Anything from the
                    trolley?
 Anything from the trolley dears? 
 Packet of drewbals and a liquorice wand.
 On second thought, just the drewbals. 
 It's alright I'll get it. 
 Just the drewbals, thanks.
 Two pumpkin pasties please.
 Thank you. 
 Anything sweet for you dear? 
 Oh no thank you I'm not hungry. 
 This is horrible, how can the ministry not know who conjured it.
                Isn't there any security or? 
 Loads according to Dad, that's what worried them so much. Happened right
                under their noses.
 It's hurting again isn't it, your scar. 
 I'm fine. 
 You know Sirius will want to hear about this. What you saw at the
                world cup, and the dream.
 Clear the runway. 
 Well there's something you don't see every day.
 Now we're all settled in and sorted, I'd like to make an
                announcement. This castle will not only be your home this year but home to some very
                special guests as well. You see Hogwarts has been choosen...
 So Hogwarts has been choosen to host a legendary event. The
                Tri-Wizard tournament. Now for those of you who do not know, the tri-wizard
                tournament brings together three schools for a series of magical contests. From each
                school a single contestant is selected to compete. Now let me be clear, if choosen
                you stand alone. And trust me when I say these contests are not for the faint
                hearted, but more of that later. For now please join me in welcoming the lovely
                ladies of the Beauxbatons Academy of magic and their headmistress Madam
                    Maxime.
 Blimey, that's one big woman. 
 And now our friends from the north, please greet the proud sons
                of Durmstrang and the high master Igor Karkaroff.
 Blimey it's him, Viktor Krum!
 Albus! 
 Igor.
 Professor Dumbledore, my horses have travelled a long way. They
                will need attending to. 
 Not to worry Madame Maxime, our gamekeeper Hagrid's more than
                capable of seeing to them. 
 But you know Monsieur Hagrid, they drink only single malt
                    whiskey.
 You idiot! 
 Your attention please! I would like to say a few words. Eternal
                glory, that is what awaits the student who wins the tri-wizard tournament. But to do
                this that student must survive three tasks. Three extremely dangerous tasks. 
 Wicked. 
 For this reason the ministry has seen fit to impose a new rule.
                To explain all this we have the head of the department of international magic
                cooperation Mister Bartimus Crouch.
 Bloody hell, it's Mad-Eye Moody. 
 Alastor Moody? The aura. 
 He was a catcher. Half the cells in Azkaban are full thanks to him. He's
                supposed to be mad as a hatter though these days.
 My dear old friend, thanks for coming. 
 That stupid roof.
 What's that he's drinking do you suppose? 
 I don't know but I don't think it's Pumpkin Juice. 
 After much deliberation the ministry has concluded that for their own
                safety no student under the age of seventeen shall be allowed to put forth their
                name for the tri-wizard tournament. This decision is final.
 That's rubbish! You don't know what you're doing! 
 Silence!
 The goblet of fire. Anyone wishing to submit themselves for the
                tournament merely write their name upon a piece of parchment and throw it in the
                flame before this hour on Thursday night. Do not do so lightly, if choosen there's
                no turning back. As from this moment the tri-wizard tournament has begun. 
 Alastor Moody.
 Ministry malcontent. And your new defence against the dark arts
                teacher. I'm here because Dumbledore asked me, end of story, goodbye, the end. Any
                questions? When it comes to the dark arts, I believe in a practical approach. But
                first, which of you can tell me how many unforgivable curses there are? 
 Three sir. 
 And they are so named? 
 Because they are unforgivable. Use of any one of them will... 
 Will earn you a one way ticket to Azkaban. Correct. Now the ministry
                says you're too young to see what these curses do. I say different! You need to know
                what you're up against, you need to be prepared, you need to find somewhere else to
                put your chewing gum other than the underside of your desk Mr Finnigan! 
 Aw no way, the old codger can see out the back of his head.
 So, which curse shall we see first? WEASLEY! 
 Yes... 
 Give us a curse. 
 Well, my dad did tell me about one... The imperious curse. 
 Ahhh yes, your father would know all about that. Gave the ministry
                quite a bit of grief a few years ago. Perhaps this will show you why.
 Hello. What a little beauty.
 Don't worry. Completely harmless.
 But if she bites... she's lethal!
 What are you laughing at?
 Talented isn't she? What shall I have her do next? Jump out the
                window? Drown herself?
 Scores of witches and wizards have claimed that they only do did
                you-know-whose bidding under the influence of the imperious curse. But here's the
                rub, how do we sort out the liars? Another.. another.. Come on come on. Longbottom
                is it? Up.
 Professor Sprout tells me you have an aptitude for herbology. 
 There's the um... The cruciatus curse. 
 Correct! Correct! come come. Particularly nasty. The torture
                    curse.
 Stop it! Can't you see it's bothering him, stop it!
 Perhaps you could give us the last unforgivable curse Miss
                    Granger.
 The killing curse. Only one person is known to have survived it. And
                he's sitting in this room.
 Brilliant isn't he! Completely demented of course. Terrifying to be in
                the same room with, he's really BEEN there you know. 
 There's a reason those curses are unforgivable, and to perform them
                in a classroom. I mean did you see Neville's face.
 Neville?
 Son. You alright?
 Come on, we'll have a cup of tea. I want to show you something. 
 Eternal glory, be brilliant wouldn't it? In three years from now we'll
                be old enough to be choosen. 
 Yeah well rather you than me.
 Thank you thank you, well lads we've done it. 
 Cooked it up just this morning. 
 It's not going to work. 
 Oh yeah? And why's that Granger. 
 You see this? This is an age line. Dumbledore drew it himself. 
 So? 
 So a genius like Dumbledore couldn't possibly be fooled by
                something pathetically dimwitted such as an age potion. 
 That's why it's so brilliant. 
 Ready Fred? 
 Ready George?
 You said..
 Sit down please. And now the moment you've all been waiting for,
                the champions selection!
 The Durmstrang champion is ... Viktor Krum!
 The champion from Beauxbatons... Fleur Delacour
 The Hogwarts champion... Cedric Diggory.
 Excellent! we now have our three champions! But in the end only
                one will go down in history. Only one will hoist this chalice of champions, this
                vessel of victory the tri-wizard cup!
 Harry Potter. Harry Potter? 
 No... No. 
 Harry Potter! 
 Go on Harry. Harry for goodness sake.
 He's a cheat! He's not even seventeen yet. 
 Harry! Did you put your name in the goblet of fire? 
 No sir. 
 Did you ask one of the older students to do it for you? 
 No sir. 
 You're absolutely sure? 
 Yes sir. 
 Well of course he is lying. 
 The hell he is. The goblet of fire is an exceptionally powerful
                magical object, only an exceptionally powerful conjurer could have hoodwinked it.
                Magic way beyond the talents of a fourth year. 
 You seem to have given this a fair bit of thought Mad-Eye. 
 It was once my job to think as dark wizards do Karkaroff perhaps you
                remember? 
 That doesn't help Alastor. Leave this to you Barty. 
 The rules are absolute, the goblet of fire constitutes a binding
                magical contract. Mr Potter has no choice, he is as of tonight... a tri-wizards
                champion. 
 This can't go on Albus. First the dark mark, now this? 
 What do you suggest Minerva? 
 Put an end to it. Don't let Potter compete. 
 You heard Barty the rules are clear. 
 Well the devil with Barty and his rules. And since when did you
                accomodate them... 
 Master I too find it difficult to believe this mere coincidence, if
                we are to truly discover the meaning of these events perhaps we should for the time
                being let them unfold. 
 Do nothing?? Offer him up as bait? Potter is a boy not a piece of
                meat. 
 I agree with Severus. Alastor, keep an eye on Harry will you? 
 I can do that. 
 Don't let him know though, he must be anxious enough as it is...
                knowing what lies ahead. Then again, we all are. 
 How did you do it?
 Never mind. Doesn't matter. You could have let your best friend know
                though. 
 Let you know what? 
 You know bloody well what. 
 I didn't ask for this to happen Ron. Okay? You're being stupid. 
 Yeah that's me, Ron Weasley... Harry Potter's stupid friend. 
 I didn't put my name in that cup. I don't WANT eternal glory I just
                wanna be.. Look, I don't know what happened tonight and I don't know why, it just
                did ok. 
 Piss off. 
 What a charismatic quartet. Hello!
 I'm Rita Skeeter, I write for the daily prophet. But of course you know
                that don't you. It's you we don't know, you're the news. What quirks lurk beneath
                those rosy cheeks? what mysteries do the muscles mask? does courage lie beneath
                those curls? In short, what makes a champion tick. Me, myself and I want to know.
                Not to mention my rabid readers. So, who's feeling up to sharing? Mmm? Shall we
                start with the youngest. Lovely.
 This is cosy. 
 It's a broomcupboard. 
 You should feel right at home then. Don't mind if I use the quill do
                you? 
 Oh, no. 
 So Harry, here you sit, a mere boy of twelve.. 
 I'm fourteen. 
 ...about to compete against three students. Not only vastly more
                emotionally mature than yourself but have mastered spells that you wouldn't attempt
                in your dizziest daydreams. Concerned? 
 I dunno I haven't really thought about it. 
 Course you're not just any ordinary boy of twelve are you... 
 Fourteen. 
 The story's legend. Do you think it was the trauma of your past that
                made you so keen to enter such a dangerous tournament. 
 No I didn't enter. 
 Course you didn't. Everyone loves a rebel Harry. 
 Scratch that last. Speaking of your parents, were they alive, how
                do you think they'd feel? proud? or concerned that your attitude shows at best a
                pathological need for attention, at worst a psychotic deathwish. 

                
 Hey, my eyes aren't glistening with the ghosts
                of my past. 

                
 Harry. I couldn't risk sending Edward. It was since the
                world cup and the ministry's been intercepting more and more owls and she's too
                easily recognised. We need to talk Harry. Face to face. Meet me in the Griffindore
                common room at one o clock this Saturday night and make sure you're alone.
                    P.S....
 AGH! 

                
 The bird bites. 
 Sirius?

                
 Harry Potter aged 12, suspect entrant in the tri-wizard
                tournament. His eyes swimming with the ghosts of his...
 Sirius?! How... 
 I don't have much time Harry so let me get straight to it. Did you or
                did you not put your name into the goblet of fire? 
 No! 
 Shh... I had to ask. Now, tell me about this dream of yours. You
                mentioned Wormtail and Voldemort, but who was the third man in the room? 
 I dunno. 
 You didn't hear a name? 
 No. Umm.. Voldemort was giving him a job to do. Something important. 
 What was that? 
 He wanted... me. I dunno why, but he was gonna use this man to get to
                me. I mean it was only a dream right? 
 Yes. It's just a dream. Look Harry, the deatheaters at the world cup,
                your name rising from that goblet these are not just coincidences. Hogwarts isn't
                safe any more. 
 What are you saying? 
 I'm saying the devils are inside the walls. Igor Karkaroff, he was a
                deatheater. And no one, no one stops being a deatheater. Then there's Barty Crouch,
                heart of stone, sent his OWN son to Azkaban. 
 Do you think one of them put my name in the goblet? 
 I haven't a clue who put your name in that goblet Harry but whoever did
                it is no friend to you. People die in this tournament. 
 I'm not ready for this Sirius. 
 You don't have a choice. 
 Someone's coming! 
 Keep your friends close Harry.
 Who you talking to? 
 Who says I was talking to anyone. 
 I heard voices. 
 Maybe you're imagining things, wouldn't be the first time. 
 You're probably just practicing for your next interview I expect.
 Amazing. Amazing. 
 Neville! You're doing it again! 
 Oh, right sorry. 

                
 Magical water plants of the highland Lochs? 
 Moody gave it to me. That day we had tea.

                
 We've already been through enough people why don't
                you just go and do it yourself? Ughh. What do you want me to say again?
 Ronald would like me to tell you that Seamus told him that Dean was
                told by Parvati that Hagrid was looking for you. 
 Is that right? Well.... what? 
 Uhhh...
 Dean was told by Parvati that... Please don't ask me say it again.
                Hagrid's looking for you. 
 Well you can tell Ronald... 
 I'm NOT an owl! 
 Did you bring your father's cloak like I asked you? 
 Yeah I brought the cloak. Hagrid where are we going? 
 You'll see soon enough. Pay attention this is important. 
 What's with the flower? Hagrid have you combed your hair?
 As a matter of fact I have. You might like to try the same thing now
                and again.
 Hagrid? 
 Oh, the cloak. Put the cloak on.
 Bonsoir Olympe. 
 Oh Hagrid. I thought you weren't coming, I thought perhaps...
                you had... forgotten me. 
 Couldn't forget you Olympe. 
 What is it you want to show me? When we spoke earlier you
                sounded so exhilirated. 
 You'll be glad you came. Trust me.
 Ahh, c'est magnifique!
 Can we get closer? 
 Dragons? That's the first task? You're joking. 
 Come on Harry. They're seriously misunderstood creatures.
 Although, I have to admit that horntail is a right nasty piece of
                work. Poor Ron nearly fainted just seeing him you know. 
 Ron was here? 
 Oh sure. His brother Charlie helped bring him over from Romania.
                Didn't Ron tell you that? 
 No he didn't. He didn't tell me a thing. 
 Cedric rules! 
 Thanks.
 Like the badge? 
 Excuse me..

                
 Can I have a word? 
 Alright.
 Dragons. That's the first task. They've got one for each of us. 
 Are you serious? And Fleur and Krum, do they...? 
 Yes. 
 Right. Hey listen, about the badges. I've asked them not to wear
                them. 
 Don't worry about it.

                
 You're a right foul git you know that? 
 You think so? 
 I know so. 
 Anything else? 
 Yeah. Stay away from me. 
 Fine.
 Why so tense Potter? My father and I have a bet you see. I don't think
                you're gonna last ten minutes in this tournament. He disagrees. He thinks you won't
                last FIVE. 
 I don't give a damn what you or your father thinks Malfoy. He's vile
                and cruel, and you're just pathetic.
 I'll teach you to cast when someone's back is turned. 
 Professor Moody what are you doing? 
 Teaching. 
 Is that a student? 
 Technically it's a ferret.
 My father will hear about this! 
 Is that a threat!
 I could tell you stories about your father that would curl even your
                greasy hair boy! It doesn't end here! 
 We never use transfigration as a punishment, surely Dumbledore
                told you that. 
 He might've mentioned it. 
 Well you will do well to remember it. 

                
 come with me.
 That's a foal glass. Lets me keep an eye on my enemies. If I can see
                the whites of their eyes they're standing right behind me.
 Wouldn't even bother telling you what's in ther. You wouldn't believe
                it if I did. Now... what are you going to do about your dragon? 
 Oh... um... You know I just thought I'd... 
 Sit. Listen to me Potter. Your pal Diggory, by your age he could take
                a whistle into a watch and have it sing you the time. Miss Delacour, she's as much a
                fairy princess as I am. As for Krum, his head may be filled with sawdust but
                Karkaroff's is NOT. They'll have a strategy, and you can bet that it'll play to
                Krum's strengths. Hmm? Come on Potter. What are your strengths? 
 Um... I dunno.. I can fly. I mean I'm a fair flyer. 
 Better than fair the way I heard it. 
 But I'm not allowed a broom. 
 You're allowed a wand.
 Pssst! Harry? Is that you? 
 Yeah. 
 How are you feeling? OK? The key is to concentrate. After that you
                just have to... 
 Battle a dragon.
 Young love! Ohh how.. stirring. If everything goes unfortunately today
                you might make the front page. 

                
 You have no business here. This tent is for champions and
                friends. 
 No matter. We've got what we wanted.
 Good day champions. Gather round please. Now you've waited,
                you've wondered and at last the moment has arrived. The moment only four of you can
                fully appreciate.
 What are you doing here Miss Granger? 
 Oh um.. Sorry I'll just go. 
 Barty. The bag. 
 Champions, in a circle around me. Miss Delacour over here, Mr Krum,
                and Potter over here. Right. Miss Delacour, if you will...
 The welsh green. Mr Krum...
 The chinese fireball. Oooooh.
 The swedish short-snout. Which leaves... 
 The horntail... 
 What's that boy? 
 Nothing.
 The hungarian horntail. These represent very real dragons, each of
                which has been given a golden egg to protect. Your objective is simple, collect the
                egg. This you must do, for each egg contains a clue without which you cannot hope to
                proceed to the next task. Any questions? 
 Very well. Good luck champions. Mr Diggory the sound of the
                    cannon...

                
 Three of our champions have now faced their
                dragons and so each one of them will proceed to the next task. And now our fourth
                and final contestant.
 Your wand harry! Your wand!
 We knew you wouldn't die Harry. 
 Lose a leg. 
 Or an arm. 
 Pack it in altogether. 
 NEVER! 
 Go on Harry, what's the clue?
 Who wants me to open it? You want me to open it?
 What the bloody hell was that?
 Alright everyone, go back to your knitting. This is gonna be
                uncomfortable enough without all you nosey sods listening in. 
 I reckon you'd have to be barking mad to put your own name in the goblet
                of fire. 
 Caught on have you. Took you long enough. 
 Wasn't just me who thought you'd done it. Everyone was saying it behind
                your back. 
 Brilliant. That makes me feel loads better. 
 At least I warned you about the dragons. 
 Hagrid warned me about the dragons. 
 Oh no no, I did. Don't you remember? I told Hermione to tell you that
                Seamus told me that Parvati told Dean that Hagrid was looking for you. Seamus never
                actually told me anything, so it was really me all along. I thought you'd be
                alright, you know, after you figured that out. 
 Who could possibly figure that out? That's completely mental. 
 Yeah it is isn't it. Suppose I was a bit distraught. 
 Boys. 

                
 Look at this! I can't believe it she's done it
                again. Miss Granger a plain but ambitious girl seems to be developing a taste for
                famous wizards. Her latest prey sources report is none other than the Bulgarian
                bon-bon Viktor Krum. No word yet on how Harry Potter's taking this latest emotional
                    blow.
 Parcel for you Mr Weasley. 
 Thank you Nigel.
 Not now Nigel. Later. Go on.
 I told him I'd get him Harry's autograph. Oh look mum's sent me
                something. Mum sent me a dress?? 
 Well it does match your eyes. Is there a bonnet? 
 Ginny these must be for you. 
 I'm not wearing that it's ghastly.
 What are you on about? 
 They're not for Ginny they're for you! Dress robes. 
 Dress robes? for what? 
 The yule ball has been a tradition of the tri-wizard tournament
                since its inception. On Christmas eve night we and our guests gather in the great
                hall for well mannered frivolity. As representitives of the host school I expect
                each and every one of you to put your best foot forward, and I mean this literally
                because the yule ball is first and foremost... a dance.
 Silence. The house of Godrick Griffindore has commanded the
                respect of the wizard world for nearly ten centuries. I will not have you in the
                course of a single evening besmirching that name by behaving like a babbling,
                bumbling band of baboons. 

                
 Try saying that five times faster.

                
 Now to dance is to let the body breathe, inside every girl
                a secret swan slumbers longing to burst forth and take flight. 

                
 Something's about to burst out of Hilary but I
                don't think it's a swan. 
 Inside every boy a lordly lion prepared to prance. Mr Weasly,
                will you join me.
 Now, place your right hand on my waist. 
 Where? 
 My waist.
 Now bend your arm. Mr Filch...
 One two three, one two three, one two three. 

                
 Oi! Never gonna let him forget this are you? 
 Never. 
 Everybody come together.
 Boys, on your feet.
 Why do they always have to travel in packs? How are you supposed to
                get one alone to ask them... 
 Blimey Harry, you slayed dragons. If you can't get a date who can? 
 I think I'd take the dragon right now.
 I take after my mum. Though I didn't know her very well, she left
                when I was about three. No, not the maternal sort her, broke my dad's heart though.
                You know he was a tiny little fellow my dad, I could pick him up with one hand by
                the age of six and put him up in the dresser.
 And then he died when I was still in school. So I had to make me own
                way as it were. But enough of me, what about you! 
 This is mad. At this rate we'll be the only ones in our year without
                    dates.
 Well, us and Neville! 
 But then again he can take himself. 
 It might interest you to know that Neville's already got
                    someone.
 Now I'm really depressed.
 Well Hermione, you're a girl. 
 Oh well spotted. 
 Come on. It's one thing for a bloke to show up alone. For a girl it's
                just sad. 
 I won't be going alone because believe it or not someone's asked
                me. And I said yes. 
 Bloody hell.
 Look. We've just got to grit our teeth and do it. Tonight when we get
                back to the common room, we'll both have partners. Agreed? 
 Agreed. 
 Harry! 
 Cho! 
 Watch yourself on the stairs, it's a bit icey at the top. 
 Ok thanks. Cho? 
 Yes? 
 Um. 
 I just wondered if maybe you wanted to go
                to the ball with me? 
 Sorry? I didn't catch that. 
 Um. I was just wondering if maybe you wanted to go to the ball with
                me. 
 Oh. Um. Harry I'm sorry but someone's already asked me. And well I've
                said I'll go with him. 
 Ok. Great. Fine. No problem. Good. 
 Harry I really am sorry. 
 What happened to you? 
 He just asked Fleur Delacour out. 
 What? 
 What did she say? 
 No of course.
 She said yes?? 
 Don't be silly. 
 There she was walking by. You know I like it when they walk. I couldn't
                help it, it just sort of slipped out. 
 Actually he sort of screamed at her, it was a bit frightening. 
 What did you do then? 
 What else? I ran for it. I'm not cut out for this Harry. I don't know
                what got into me.
 Hi Harry. 
 Hey! 
 Bloody hell.
 What are those?? 
 My dress robes. 
 Well they're alright. No lace, no dodgy little collar. 
 Well I expect yours are more traditional. 
 Traditional?? They're ancient! I look like my great aunt Tessie.
 I smell like my great aunt Tessie. Murder me Harry. 
 Leave it alone. 
 Poor kid, bet she's alone in her room crying her eyes out. 
 Who? 
 Hermione of course. Come on Harry, why'd you think she wouldn't tell us
                who she's coming with? 
 Because we'd take the mickey out of her if she did. 
 Because nobody asked her. I would have taken her myself if she weren't
                so bleeding proud.
 Hello boys. Don't you look...
 ... dashing. 
 Here you are Potter. Are you and Miss Patil ready? 
 Ready professor? 
 To dance. It's traditional that the three champions or in this
                case four are the first to dance. Surely I told you that. 
 No. 
 Oh well now you know. Oh, as for your Mr Weasly you may proceed
                into the great hall with Miss Patil.
 She looks beautiful. 
 Yeah she does.

                
 Is that Hermione Granger? With Viktor Krum?? 
 No. Absolutely not.
 Harry. Take my waist. 
 What? 
 Now.
 Hot isn't it? Viktor's gone to get drinks. Care to join us? 
 No, we'd NOT care to join you and Viktor. 
 What's got your wand in a knot? 
 He's a Durmstrang. You're fraternising with the enemy. 
 The enemy?? Who was it wanting his autograph? Besides, the whole
                point of the tournament is international magical cooperation, to make friends. 
 Hrmph, I think he's got a bit more than friendship on his mind.
 Are you going to ask me to dance or not? 
 No. 

                
 He's using you. 
 How dare you! Besides I can take care of myself. 
 Doubt it. He's way too old. 
 What? What? That's what you think? 
 Yeah that is what I think. 
 You know the solution then don't you. 
 Go on. 
 Next time there's a ball pluck up the courage and ask me before
                somebody else does, and not as a last resort. 
 Well that's completely off the point. Harry...
 Where have you been? Nevermind! Off to bed both of you.
 They get scary when they get older. 
 Ron you spoil everything! 
 Let me see it again.
 Ah yes, the time is close now. Harry! At last! Step aside Wormtail
                so I can give our guest a proper greeting!
 You alright Harry? I just got in. Me!
 Harry you told me you'd figured the egg out weeks ago. The task is
                two days from now. 
 Really? I had no idea. I suppose Viktor's already figured it out. 
 I wouldn't know, we didn't actually talk about the tournament.
                Actually we didn't really talk at all, Viktor's more of a physical being. I just
                mean he's not particularly... Mostly he watches me study. It's a bit annoying
                actually. You are trying to figure this egg out aren't you? 
 What's that supposed to mean? 
 I mean these tasks are supposed to test you, in the most brutal way
                they're almost cruel. And um, I'm scared for you. You got by the dragon mostly on
                nerve, I'm not sure it's going to be enough this time. 
 Hey Potter. 
 Cedric. 
 How are you? 
 Spectacular. 
 Look I realise I never really thanked you properly for tipping me off
                about those dragons. 
 Forget about it. I'm sure you would have done the same for me. 
 Exactly. You know the prefects bathroom on the fifth floor?
 It's not a bad place for a bath. Just take your egg and mull things
                over in the hot water. 
 I must be out of my mind.
 I'd try putting it in the water if I were you. 
 Myrtle! 
 Long time no see.
 I was circling a blocked drain the other day and could swear I saw a
                bit of polyjuice potion. Not being a bad boy again are you Harry? 
 Polyjuice potion! Kicked the habit. Myrtle, did you say try putting it
                in the water?
 Well. That's what he did. The other boy, the handsome one.
                    Cedric.
 Well go on, open it.
 Come seek us where our voices sound. We cannot sing above the
                ground. An hour long you'll have to look, to recover what we took. 
 Myrtle, there aren't Merpeople in the black lake are there? 
 Ahhh, very good. Took Cedric ages to riddle it out. Almost all the
                bubbles were gone...
 Harry, tell me again. 
 Come seek us where our voices sound. 
 The black lake, that's obvious. 
 An hour long you'll have to look. 
 Again obvious, though I must admit potentially problematic 
 Potentially problematic? When was the last time you held your breath
                under the water for an hour Hermione? 
 Look Harry, we can do this. The three of us can figure it
                    out.
 Hate to break up this scholar session but Professor McGonagall would
                like to see you in her office. Not you Potter, just Weasly and Granger. 
 But sir, the second task is only hours away and... 
 Exactly. Presumably Potter is well prepared by now and could do with a
                good night's sleep. Go. Now! Longbottom!
 Why don't you help Potter put his books back. 
 You know, if you're interested in plants you'd be better with
                Gorshok's Guide to Herbology. Do you know there's a wizard in Nepal whose growing
                gravity resistant trees? 
 Neville. No offense, but I really don't care about plants. Now if
                there's a Tibetan turnip that will allow me to breathe underwater for an hour then
                great. 
 I don't know about a turnip but you can always use gilliweed. 
 You're sure about this Neville. 
 Absolutely. 
 For an hour. 
 Most likely. 
 Most likely? 
 Well there is some debate among herbologists as to the effects of
                freshwater versus saltwater. 
 You're telling me this now? You must be joking. 
 I just wanted to help. 
 Well that makes you sight better than Ron and Hermione. Where are they
                anyway? 
 You seem a little tense Harry. 
 Do I? 

                
 Welcome to the second task. Last night something
                was stolen from each of our champions. A treasure of sorts. These four treasures,
                one for each champion, now lie on the bottom of the black lake. In order to win each
                champion need only find their treasure and return to the surface. Simple enough.
                Except for this, they will have one hour to do so and one hour only. After that
                they'll be on their own. 

                
 Put that in your mouth.

                
 You may begin at the start of the cannon.
 What's the matter with him? 
 I don't know I can't see him. 
 Oh my god I've killed Harry Potter!

                
 The Beauxbatons champion Miss Delacour has
                unfortunately been forced to retire. She will take no further part in this task.
            
 But she's my friend too! 
 Only one.
 Harry! 
 Get him another towel. 
 I want all the judges over here now. 

                
 You saved her, even though she wasn't yours to save. My
                little sister!
 Thank you! And you... 
. You helped! 
 Well... yeah... a bit
 Merci.
 Harry! 
 Hermione 
 Are you alright? You must be freezing! Personally I think you
                behaved admirably.
 I finished last Hermione. 
 Next to last. 
 Attention! Attention! The winner is... Mr Diggory!
 For showing unique command of the bubblehead shark. The way I see
                it, Mr Potter would have finished first had it not been for his determination to
                rescue not only Mr Weasly but the others as well. We've agreed to award him second
                place! For outstanding moral fibre.
 All that moral fibre eh? 
 Blimey even when you go wrong it turns out right. 
 Well done 'moral fibre'.
 Congratulations Potter, fine achievement. Well done boy. I'm sorry we
                haven't spoken, after all your story is one I've heard many times. Quite remarkable.
                Tragic of course, to lose one's family. Never whole again are we? Still, life goes
                on. And here we stand. I'm sure your parents would be very proud today
                    Potter.
 Bartimus! Not trying to lure Potter into one of the ministry's summer
                internships are we? Last boy who went into the department of ministries never came
                    out!
 And they say I'm mad. 
 So I remember, I remember when I first met you all. Biggest bunch of
                misfits I've ever set eyes on. Always reminded me of myself a little. And here we
                all are, four years later. 
 We're still misfits. 
 Maybe. But we've all got each other, and Harry of course. Soon to be!
                The youngest! Tri-Wizard champion there's ever been! Hooray!
 Mr Crouch? 
 A man has died here. And he won't be the last, you must take
                action. 
 I will not. In times like these the wizard world looks to its leaders
                for strength Dumbledore. 
 Then for once show them some. 
 The tri-wizard tournament will not be cancelled. I will not be seen as
                a coward. 
 But surely that is what's right, no matter what others think. 
 What did you say? What did you say to me? 
 Excuse me gentlemen, it may interest you to know that this
                conversation is no longer private.
 Harry! Harry how good to see you again. 
 I can come back later Professor. 
 Oh not necessary Harry the minister and I are done. I'll be back
                in a moment. Minister, after you. Harry do feel free to indulge in a liquorice snack
                in my absence, but I have to warn you they're a little bit sharp.
 Agh!
 Professor?
 Professor.
 Igor Karkaroff, you have been brought from Azkaban at your own request
                to present evidence to this counsel. Should your testimony prove consequential.
                Counsel may be prepared to order your immediate release. Until such time you remain
                in the eyes of the ministry a convicted deatheater. Do you accept these terms? 
 I do sir. 
 What do you wish to present? 
 I have names sir. There was a Rosier, Evan Rosier. 
 Mr Rosier is dead. 
 Dead? 

                
 Yeah took a piece of me with him though didn't
                    he.
 I didn't know. 
 If that is all the witness has to offer... 
 No! No! There was Rookwood, he was a spy. 
 Augustus Rookwood? Of the department of ministries. 
 Ya ya, the same. He passed information to you know who from inside the
                ministry itself. 
 Very well. Counsel will deliberate. In the meantime you will be
                returned to Azkaban. 
 NO! WAIT! PLEASE! I have more. Snape, Severus Snape. 
 The counsel is very much aware you have given evidence on this
                matter. Severus Snape was indeed a deatheater and prior to Lord Voldemort's downfall
                turned spy for us at great personal risk. Today he's no more a deatheater than I
                    am.
 It's a lie! Severus Snape remains faithful to the dark lord. 
 Silence!
 Unless the witness possesses any name of genuine consequence this
                session is now concluded. 
 Oh no no no no no. I heard about one more. 
 What's that? 
 The name... 
 Yes? 
 I know for a fact this person took part in the capture, and by means of
                the cruciatus curse, torture of the aurer Frank Longbottom and... 
 The name! Give me the wretched name! 
 Barty Crouch! ... Junior.
 Get your hands off me you pathetic little men. Hello father. 
 You are no son of mine. 
 GAHHHH!
 Curiosity's not a sin Harry, but you should exercise caution.
                It's a pensieve, useful if like me you find your mind a wee bit stretched. It allows
                me to see what small things I've already seen. You see Harry I've searched and
                searched for something, some small detail. Something I might have overlooked,
                something that would explain why these terrible things have happened. Every time I
                get close to an answer it slips away, it's maddedning. 
 Sir, Mr Crouch's son, what happened to him? 
 He was sent to Azkaban. Destroyed Barty to do it. But he had no
                choice, the evidence was overwhelming. Why do you ask? 
 It's just that I had a dream about him. It was in the summer, before
                school. In the dream I was in a house and Voldemort was there only he wasn't quite
                human, and Wormtail was there too and Mr Crouch's son. 
 Have there been other dreams like this? 
 Yes. Always the same one. Sir... these dreams, what I see, you don't
                think it's actually happening do you? 
 I think it's unwise for you to linger over these dreams Harry, I
                think it's best that you simply...
 Cast them away. 
 It's a sign Severus, you know what it means as well as I.
 Potter! What's your hurry? Congratulations, your performance in the
                black lake was inspiring. Gilliweed, am I correct? 
 Yes sir. 
 Ingenious. A rather rare herb gilliweed, not something found in your
                every day garden. Nor is this, know what it is? 
 Bubble juice sir? 
 Veritaserum. Three drops of this and you-know-who himself will spill
                his darkest secrets. The use of this on a student is regrettably forbidden, however
                should you ever steal from my personal stores again, my hand might just slip over
                your morning pumpkin juice. 
 I haven't stolen anything. 
 Don't lie to me. Gilliweed might be innocuous, but boomslang skin?
                lacewing flies? You and your friends are brewing polyjuice potion and believe me I'm
                going to find out why.
 Earlier today Professor Moody placed the tri-wizards cup deep
                within the maze. Only he knows its exact position. Now as Mr Diggory...

                
 and Mr Potter tied for first position they will be the
                first to enter the maze. Followed by Mr Krum...

                
 The first person to touch the cup will be the winner. I've
                instructed the staff to patrol the perimeter, if at any point should a contestant
                wish to withdraw from the task he or she need only send up red sparks with their
                wands. Contestants, gather round. 

                
 In the maze you'll find not dragons or creatures
                of the deep. Instead you'll face something more challenging. You see, people change
                in the maze. Oh find the cup if you can, but be very weary you could just lose
                yourselves along the way. 
 Champions! Prepare yourselves.
 On the count of three... ONE...
 Fleur? Fleur!
 Get down!
 No stop! He's bewitched Cedric.
 Get off me! 
 He's bewitched!
 Harry! Harry!
 You know for a moment there I thought you were gonna let it get me. 
 For a moment so did I. 
 Some game huh? 
 Some game.
 Go. Take it, you saved me! 
 Together, on three. One, two, three! 
 You ok? 
 Yeah, you? 
 Where are we? 
 I've been here before. 
 It's a portkey. Harry the cup is a portkey. 
 I've been here before in a dream. Cedric, we have to get back to the
                cup? Now! 
 What are you talking about?
 What is it? 
 Get back to the cup!
 Who are you? What do you want? 
 Kill the spare.
 Cedric!
 Do it, now!
 Bones of the father, unwillingly given.
 Flesh of the servent willingly sacrificed.
 Blood of the enemy forcibly taken.
 The dark lord shall rise again.
 My wand Wormtail.
 Hold out your arm. 
 Master. Thank you master. 
 The other arm Wormtail.
 Welcome my friends. Thirty years it's been, and yet you stand
                before me as though it were only yesterday. I confess myself disappointed, not one
                of you tried to find me.
 Not even you, Lucius. 
 My lord. Had I detected any sign or even a whisper of your
                whereabouts. 
 There were signs my friend, and more than whispers. 
 I assure you I never renounced the old ways. The face I have
                been obliged to present each day since your absence, that was my true mask. 
 I returned. 
 Out of fear, not loyalty. Still you have proved yourself useful
                these past few months Wormtail.
 Thank you master, thank you. 

                
 Oh, such a handsome boy. 
 Don't touch him.
 Harry! I'd almost forgotten you were here. Standing on the bones
                of my father. I'd introduce you but word has it you're almost as famous as me these
                days. The boy who lived. How lies have fed your legend Harry. Shall I reveal what
                really happened that night thirteen years ago? Shall I divulge how I truly lost my
                powers? It was love. You see when dear sweet Lily Potter gave her life for her only
                son she provided the ultimate protection. I could not touch you. It was old magic,
                something I should have forseen. But no matter, no matter. Things have changed, I
                can touch you now!
 Astonishing what a few drops of your blood will do eh Harry? Pick
                up your wand Potter. I said pick it up, get up. Get up! You've been taught how to
                duel I presume yes? First we bow to each other. Come on now Harry the niceties must
                be observed, Dumbledore would not want you to forget your manners now would he? I
                said bow!
 That's better. And now...
 Atta boy Harry, your parents would be proud. Especially your
                filthy mongrel mother. I'm going to kill you Harry Potter, I'm going to destroy you.
                After tonight no one will ever again question my powers. After tonight if they speak
                of you they'll speak only of how you begged for death, and I being a merciful lord
                obliged. Get up.
 Don't you turn your back on me Harry Potter I want you to look at
                me when I kill you, I want to see the lights leave your eyes.
 Have it your way.
 Do nothing. He is mine to finish. He's mine!

                
 Harry when the connection is broken you must get to the
                portkey. We can delay it for a moment to give you time but only a moment, do you
                understand? 

                
 Harry take my body back will you? Take my body back to my
                father. 

                
 Let go. Sweetheart you're ready. Let go! Let go!
 No! 
 Harry! Harry!
 Tell me what happened! 
 He's back, he's back! Voldemort's back. Cedric, he asked me to bring
                his body back. I couldn't leave him, not there. 
 It's alright Harry. It's alright, he's home, you both are. 
 Keep everybody in their seats. A boy has just been killed. The body
                must be moved Dumbledore, there are... too many people. 
 Let me through! That's my son! My boy!
 Are you alright Potter?
 Does it hurt? 
 Not so much now. 
 I'd better take a look at it.
 The cup was a portkey. Someone had bewitched it. 
 What was it like? What was he like? 
 Who? 
 The dark lord. What was it like to stand in his presence? 
 I dunno. It was like I'd fallen into one of my dreams. One of my
                    nightmares.
 Were there others? In the graveyard, were there others? 
 Um. I don't think I said anything about a graveyard Professor. 
 Marvellous creatures dragons aren't they? Do you think that miserable
                oaf would have led you into the woods if I hadn't suggested it? Do you think Cedric
                Diggory would have told you to hold the egg under the water if I hadn't have told
                him first myself? Do you think Neville Longbottom the witless wonder could have
                provided you with gilliweed if I hadn't have given him the book that led you
                straight to it? Huh?? 
 It was you from the beginning. You put my name in the goblet of fire.
                You bewitched Krum. But...
 You won because I made it so Potter. You ended up in that graveyard
                tonight because it was meant to be so. And now the deed is done. The blood that runs
                through these veins runs within the dark lord. Imagine how he will reward me when he
                learns that I have once and for all silenced the great Harry Potter.
 Severus...
 Do you know who I am? 
 Albus Dumbledore. 
 Are you Alastor Moody? Are ya? 
 No. 
 Is he in this room? Is he in this room?
 Harry get away from there!
 Are you alright Alastor? 
 I'm sorry Albus. 
 That's Moody, but then who's...?
 Polyjuice potion. 
 Now we know who's been stealing it from your store
                    Severus.
 We'll get you up in a minute.
 Barty Crouch Junior. 
 I'll show you mine if you show me yours.
 Your arm Harry. 
 You know what this means don't you? He's back. Lord Voldemort has
                returned. 
 Send an owl to Azkaban, think they'll find they're missing a
                prisoner. 
 I'll be welcomed back like a hero. 
 Perhaps. Personally I've never had much time for heroes. 

                
 Today we acknowledge a really terrible loss.
                Cedric Diggory was as you all know, exceptionally hard working, intricately fair
                minded. And most importantly a fierce fierce friend. I think therefore you have the
                right to know exactly how he died. You see, Cedric Diggory was murdered by Lord
                Voldemort. The ministry of magic does not wish me to tell you this. But not to do so
                I think would be an insult to his memory. Now the pain we all feel at this dreadful
                loss reminds me, reminds us that while we may come from different places and speak
                in different tongues, our hearts beat as one. In light of recent events the bonds of
                friendship we made this year will be more important than ever. Remember that and
                Cedric Diggory will not have died in vain, you remember that. And we'll celebrate a
                boy who was kind and honest and brave and true right to the very end. 
 I never liked these curtains. Set them on fire in my fourth year,
                by accident of course. I put you in terrible danger this year Harry I'm sorry. 
 Professor, when I was in the graveyard there was a moment... um...
                when Voldemort's wand and mine sort of connected. 
 Priori Incantatem. You saw your parents that night didn't you?
                They reappeared.
 No spell can reawaken the dead Harry I trust you know that. Dark
                and diffiult times lie ahead. Soon we must all face the choice between what is right
                what is easy. But remember this, you have friends here. You're not alone. 
 Write to me. Promise. 
 Bye.
 Au revoir Ron.
 Do you think we'll ever just have a quiet year at Hogwarts? 
 No. 
 No I don't think so. 
 Everything's going to change now isn't it? 
 Yes. 
 Promise you'll write this summer. Both of you. 
 Well I won't. You know I won't! 
 Harry will won't you? 
 Yeah. Every week.