"... and in the time of greatest despair, there shall come a savior, and he shall be known as The Son of The Suns."
Journal of the Whills, 3:127
"THE STAR WARS"
FADE IN:
A vast sea of star serves as the backdrop for the MAIN TITLE, which is followed by a ROLL UP:
The REPUBLIC GALACTICA is dead. Ruthless trader barons, driven by greed and the lust for power, have replaced enlighten- ment with oppression, and "rule by the people" with the FIRST GALACTIC EMPIRE.
For over a thousand years, generations of JEDI KNIGHTS were the guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy. Now these legendary warriors are all but extinct. One by one they have been hunted down and destroyed by the sinister agents of the Emperor: the DARK LORDS OF THE SITH.
It is a period of civil wars. Rebel Armies, striking from fortresses hidden deep within the Great rift, have won a crushing victory over the powerful Imper- ial Starfleet. The Emperor knows that one more such defeat will bring a thou- sand more solar systems into the rebellion, and Imperial control of the Outland systems could be lost forever. To crush the rebellion once and for all, the Emperor has sent one of his most ferocious Dark Lords to find the secret rebel strongholds and destroy them...
The awesome yellow planet of Utapau emerges from total eclipse. A tiny silver spacecraft races into view, fol- lowed by a giant Imperial stardestroyer. Hundreds of deadly laser bolts streak from the Imperial warship as it dives on the smaller craft. The overwhelming concen- tration of laser fire causes the main solar fin of the rebel craft to disintegrate, creating a spectacular heavenly display. The smoldering rebel ship is quickly overtaken by the giant Imperial warship.
The chaos of battle echoes through the narrow, main cor- ridor of the starfighter.
An explosion rocks the ship as two construction robots, ARTOO DETOO (R2-D2) and SEE THREEPIO (C-3PO) struggle to make their way through the shaking, bouncing passage- way. Both robots are old and battered. Artoo is a short (36 inches), claw-armed, triped. His face is a mass of computer lights, surrounding a radar eye. Threepio, on the other hand, is a tall, slender robot of human proportions. He has a gleaming bronze-like metallic surface of an "Art Deco" design.
The little dwarf robot makes a series of electronic sounds that only another robot could understand. Rebel troops rush past the robots, and take up positions in the main passageway. Everything is suddenly still and quiet. Tension mounts as the rebels wait for the pending attack. Loud metallic footsteps are heard moving around on the outside the hull of the ship. The scraping screams of heavy equipment being dragged across the metal skin of the star- ship run chills up Threepio's bronze spine. He huddles in a small alcove with little Artoo watching the passageway ceiling.
A tremendous blast opens up a hole six feet wide in the side of the main passageway and a score of fearsome storm- troopers, armed with powerful multi-laser rifles, make their way into the smoking corridor. The rebel warriors draw their chrome, laser pistols, and blast out several shots that rip through the Imperial stormtroopers.
In a few moments, the entire passageway blazes with laser fire. The deadly bolts ricochet in wild random patterns, creating small explosions. Stormtroopers scatter and duck behind storage lockers. Laser bolts hit several storm- troopers who scream and stagger through the smoke, holding shattered arms and faces.
In the confusion, Artoo and Threepio are blown slipping and sliding into a power canister, but rushing gas from a broken pipe keeps knocking them over. The lanky Threepio becomes entangled in the mass of dangling wires, which spark and pop every time he attempts to move. Artoo clings to a pipe for dear life.
Artoo counters with an angry rebuttal as he struggles to free the larger robot. The battle rages around the two hapless robots. Suddenly, there is a slight lull in the fighting, then a deathly quiet sweeps over the passageway as an awesome, seven-foot tall DARK LORD OF THE SITH makes his way into the blinding light of the main passageway. This is DARTH VADER, right hand of the Emperor. His face is obscured by his flowing black robes and grotesque breath mask which stands out next to the fascist white armored suits of the Imperial stormtroopers. Everyone instinctively backs away from the imposing warrior.
Vader raises his arms and objects that aren't bolted down, including the rebel warriors, are picked up by an invisi- ble force and hurled to the end of the passageway. In the excitement, Artoo and Threepio have fled down a sub-hallway.
A death white wasteland stretches from horizon to hori- zon. The tremendous heat of two huge twin suns settles on a lone figure, LUKE STARKILLER, a farm-boy with heroic aspirations; who looks much younger than his twenty years. His short hair and baggy tunic give him the air of a simple-minded, but lovable lout with a prize-winning smile. His face is partially covered by a breath mask and goggles.
A light wind whips at him as he adjusts several valves on a large chrome pipe, which sticks out of the desert floor much like and oil-rig christmas tree. He is aided by a small, very beat-up tread-robot with six claw arms. The little robot appears to be barely functioning, and moves with jerky motions. A bright sparkle in the morn- ing sky catches Luke's eye, and he instinctively grabs a pair of electrobinoculars from his utility belt.
He stands transfixed for a few moments, studying the heavens, then dashes toward his dented, crudely repaired Landspeeder (an auto-like transport that travels a few feet above the ground on a magnetic field).
He motions to the tiny robot, who is scooting around in a tight circle, to follow him.
The robot stops short and smoke begins to pour out of every joint. Luke throws up his arms in disgust.
He gives the dwarf robot a swift kick in the side, which doesn't seem to make much difference. The young farm boy rushes to his landspeeder and zooms off leaving the smoldering robot to hum madly.
A series of explosions echo throughout the ship as the tall, gleaming Threepio rushes through the narrow sub- hallway yelling at Artoo, who is racing along on a small set of wheels under his center foot.
Artoo stops before the small hatch of an emergency life- pod. He snaps the seal on the main latch and a red warning light begins to flash. The stubby, dwarf-robot works his way into the cramped four-man pod.
Artoo whistles something at his reluctant friend.
Artoo isn't happy with Threepio's stubbornness and he beeps and twangs angrily.
A new explosion, this time very close, sends dust and debris through the narrow sub-hallway. Flames lick at Threepio, and after a flurry of electronic swearing from Artoo, the lanky robot jumps into the lifepod.
The safety door snaps shut, and with the thunder of ex- ploding latches, the tiny lifepod ejects from the dis- abled starfighter.
On the main viewscreen, the lifepod carrying the two ter- rified robots speeds away from the stricken rebel space- craft.
CHIEF PILOT There goes another one.
Darth Vader, the black knight, takes a short restraining pole from one of the guards and brutally jabs a captured rebel officer in the chest.
The rebel cries out as the spooky looking Sith Lord be- gins to twist his arm, creating a gruesome snapping and popping of broken bones.
The reddish-yellow mass of Utapau seems to engulf the tiny lifepod containing the two robots. The grouping of starships grows smaller as the pod descends toward the planet.
A small settlement, consisting of a few rundown block- house type buildings, rests against one of the huge rock mesas. Heat waves radiate from the dozen or so bleached white buildings. Luke pilots his landspeeder through the dusty, empty street of the tiny settlement. An old WOMAN runs to get out of the way of the speeding vehicle, shaking her fist at Luke as he flies past.
Luke pulls up behind a low concrete service station that is all but covered by the shifting desert sands. The rusted hulk of a landspeeder lies half-buried to one side of the building. Luke jumps out of the speeder and runs into the dilapidated power station.
A dismantled speeder rests in the repair bay of the sta- tion. Inside the station's "office" sits THE FIXER, rugged-looking, about thirty years old, with a big mous- tache. On his lap sits CAMIE, a sexy, disheveled girl about eighteen. Her cloak is pulled up and one of the Chief's hands rests on her beautiful thigh. They are both sound asleep. In a small room behind the office DEAK and WINDY, two tough boys about the same age as Luke, are playing a computer pool-like game with BIGGS, a tall, handsome startrooper cadet. His flashy uniform is a sharp contrast to the loose-fitting tunic of farm boys. A robot repairs some equipment in the background.
Luke bounces in yelling excitedly, waking The Fixer and Camie. The others come in from the other room, and Camie jumps off The Fixer's lap, pulling her dress down in a sexy manner. Luke is surprised at the appearance of Biggs.
Biggs has an air of cool that seems slightly phony.
Biggs snaps to attention.
The dazzling spectacle of his uniformed friend is almost too much for Luke. His eyes glaze over. Suddenly he snaps out of it.
The group stumbles out into the stifling desert sun. Deak and The Fixer complain, and are forced to shade their eyes. Luke has his binoculars out, scanning the heavens.
Biggs takes the binoculars from Luke, as the others strain to see something with the naked eye. Through the binoculars Biggs sees two small silver specks.
Camie grabs the binoculars away from Biggs, banging them against the building in the process. Luke reaches for them.
Fixer gives Luke a hard look, and the young farm boy shrugs his shoulders in resignation.
Luke agrees, although it's obvious he isn't sure why. The group stumbles back into the power station, grumb- ling about Luke's ineptitude,
A beautiful young girl about sixteen years old huddles in a small alcove as the stormtroopers search through the ship. She is LEIA ORGANA, a rebel princess. The fear in her eyes slowly gives way to anger as the muted crushing sounds of the approaching stormtroopers grows louder. She steps from her hiding place and blasts two troopers with her laser pistol, but she is greatly out- numbered and quickly captured.
Princess Leia is led down a low-ceilinged hallway by a squad of armored stormtroopers. Her hands are bound with brass bracelets, and she is brutally shoved when she is unable to keep up with the briskly marching troops. They enter a small gloomy chamber where Darth Vader, the Dark Lord of the Sith, is sitting. Vader speaks in an oddly filtered voice through his complex breathing mask.
The Officer bows and leaves the chamber.
Vader raises his arm and as a sudden pain grips Leia, she doubles up unable to continue. Vader raises his arm and a flask on the table mysteriously jumps into his open hand. He casually drinks from the flask.
His frightening laugh rings throughout the ship.
JUNDLAND, or "No Man's Land," where the rugged desert mesas meet the foreboding dune sea. The two helpless astro-robots kick up clouds of dust as they leave the lifepod and clumsily work their way across the desert coastline.
Suddenly Artoo makes a sharp right turn and starts off in the direction of the rocky desert mesas. Threepio stops and yells at him.
A stream of electronic noises pour forth from the small robot.
Artoo counters with a long whistle.
He shoves Artoo and the tiny robot tumbles down a small dune. Threepio starts off in the direction of the vast dune sea as little Artoo struggles to his feet and shakes a metallic claw at his ex-partner.
Artoo's reply is a rather rude sound. He turns and trudges off in the direction of the towering mesas.
Threepio, hot tired, struggles up over the ridge of a dune, only to find more dunes, which seems to go on for endless miles. He looks back in the direction of the now distant rock mesas.
He sits in a huff of anger and frustration, knocking the sand from his joints. His plight seems hopeless, when a glint of reflected light in the distance reveals an object moving toward him. The bronze android waves frantically and yells at the approaching transport.
Luke and Biggs are sitting in a corner of the now empty power station. Biggs has had a little too much to drink and sloppily leans close to Luke.
They quietly sit in the dim coolness of the station hav- ing run out of things to say. Luke finishes his drink and stands up.
The gargantuan rock formations are shrouded in a strange foreboding mist, and the ominous sounds of unearthly creatures fill the air. Artoo moves cautiously through the creepy rock canyon, inadvertently making a loud clicking noise as he goes. He hears a distant, hard metallic sound and stops for a moment. Convinced he is alone, he continues on his way.
In the distance, a pebble tumbles down the steep canyon wall and a small, dark figure darts into the shadows. A little further up the canyon a slight flicker of light reveals a pair of eyes in the dark recesses, only a few feet from the narrow path.
The unsuspecting robot waddles along the rugged trail until suddenly, out of nowhere, a powerful magnetic ray shoots out of the rocks and engulfs him in an eerie glow. He manages one short electronic squeak before he topples over onto his back. His bright computer lights flicker off, then on, then off again. Out of the rocks scurry three MEN, no taller than Artoo. They holster strange and complex weapons as they cautiously approach the robot. They wear grubby cloaks, and their faces are shrouded so that only their yellow eyes can be seen. They hiss and make odd guttural sounds as they heave the heavy robot to their shoulders and carry him off down the trail.
The eight dwarves, or JAWAS as they're sometimes called, carry Artoo out of the canyon to a huge tank-like vehicle the size of a two-story house. They place the robot under a large tube on the side of the vehicle, and the little robot is sucked into the giant machine.
The filthy little Jawas scurry like rats up small lad- ders and enter the main cabin of the behemoth transport.
It is dim inside the hold area of the sand crawler. Artoo switches on a small floodlight on his forehead and stumbles around the scrap heap. The narrow beam swings across rusty metal rocket parts and an array of gro- tesquely twisted and maimed astro-robots. He lets out a pathetic electronic whimper and stumbles off toward what appears to be a door at the end of the chamber.
Artoo enters a wide room with a four-foot ceiling. In the middle of the scrap heap sit a dozen or so robots of various shapes and sizes. Some are engaged in elec- tronic conversation, while others simply mill about. A voice of recognition calls out from the gloom.
A battered Threepio scrambles up to Artoo and embraces him.
The enormous sand crawler lumbers off toward the mag- nificent twin suns, which are slowly setting over a distant mountain ridge.
Two stormtroopers open an electronic cell door and allow a group of Imperial guards to enter. Princess Leia's face is filled with defiance, which slowly gives way to fear as Darth Vader enters with a giant black torture robot.
Leia stares at the evil lord with determination.
The door slides shut. The long cell block hallway appears peaceful with armored stormtroopers marching back and forth. The muffled sounds of the princess' screaming are barely heard.
A harsh gale blows across the bleak gray surface of the endless desert wasteland. The morning sky presses down on the huge sand crawler as it slowly climbs one of the massive sand dunes, then disappears down the other side.
Threepio and Artoo noisily bounce along inside the cramped prison chamber. Artoo appears to be shut off.
Suddenly the trembling and bouncing of the sand crawler stops, creating quite a commotion among the mechanical men. Threepio shakes Artoo, and his computer lights pop on.
At the far end of the long chamber a hatch opens, filling the chamber with blinding white light. A dozen or so Jawas make their way through the odd assortment of robots, placing a small chrome ring to the wrists of the ones they select. Artoo and Threepio are among the chosen, and are herded outside with several other unfortunates.
Five battered robots, including Artoo and Threepio, are lined up in front of the enormous sand crawler, which is parked beside a small homestead consisting of three rundown block houses.
The Jawas scurry around fussing over the robots, straightening them up, or brushing some dust from a dented metallic elbow. The shrouded little creatures smell horribly, attracting small insects to the dark areas where their mouths and nostrils should be.
Out of the shadows of a dingy side-building limps OWEN LARS, a large burly man in his mid-fifties. His reddish eyes are sunken in a dust-covered face. As the weather- beaten farmer carefully inspects each of the robots, he is closely followed by his slump-shouldered nephew, Luke Starkiller. One of the vile little Jawas walks ahead of the farmer spouting an animated sales pitch in a queer unintelligible language.
Owen picks out a small astro-robot similar to Artoo, and it waddles along behind the group. The limping farmer stops in front of Threepio and studies him carefully.
As the Jawas start to lead the three remaining robots back into the sand crawler, Artoo lets out a pathetic little beep and starts after his old friend Threepio, but is restrained by a slimy little Jawa, who zaps him with a little control box. Owen is negotiating with the head Jawa, when Luke notices something on the R-2 unit.
He lifts the R-2 unit's claw arm and it drops lifelessly to the robot's side. Owen argues with the Jawas for a few moments; then with a little reluctance the scruffy dwarf trades the damaged astro-robot for Artoo Detoo. Owen pays off the whining Jawa as Luke and the two robots trudge off toward a grimy and decaying building on the far side of the homestead. Several large rodents scatter as they pass.
The garage is cluttered and worn, but a friendly, peace- ful atmosphere permeates the low gray chamber. In the center of the room Threepio lowers himself into a large tub filled with warm oil. Near the battered "land- speeder" little Artoo rests on a large battery with a cord attached to his face.
Artoo beeps a muffled reply. Luke is slouched in the corner with his feet up on a bench, watching a magazine sized TV set. A woman's voice calls out from the other room.
Luke jumps to his feet, turns off the TV set and starts dusting little Artoo with an oily rag.
Luke drops the rag and dashes out of the garage.
Luke and his uncle Owen sit before a table covered with steaming bowls of food. AUNT BERU, a plump, gray- haired matron, carries in a pitcher of blue milk. Luke is in a good mood, and gobbles down his food.
Luke's Uncle Owen has a scowl on his face and appears to be in a very grumpy mood.
Luke pushes his half-eaten plate of food aside and rushes out of the room. Owen mechanically finishes his dinner afraid to look at his quietly sympathetic wife.
The giant twin suns of Utapau slowly disappear behind a distant dune range. Luke stands watching them for a few moments, then reluctantly enters the dimly lit garage.
Threepio is wiping the oil from his glistening bronze body and little Artoo is still plugged into the power unit. Luke is very angry and slams a wrench across the workbench.
Threepio timidly approaches the fuming youth.
Luke glances at the battered robot and a bit of his anger drains and a tiny smile creeps across his face.
Luke unplugs Artoo and begins to scrape several connectors on the robot's head with a chrome pick. Threepio con- tinues to dry himself.
Luke sparks to life at the mention of rebellion.
Luke struggles to remove a small metal fragment from Artoo's neck joint. He uses a larger pick.
The fragment breaks loose with a snap, sending Luke tumb- ling head over heels. He sits up and sees a small (15 inch) 3-D hologram of Leia Organa, the rebel princess, being projected from the face of little Artoo. The image is a rainbow of colors as it flickers and jiggles in the dimly lit garage. Luke's mouth hangs open in awe.
There is a little static, then the transmission is cut short. A grave concern sweeps over Luke, and he runs out of the garage.
Now that night has fallen, the interior of the home- stead is filled with a warm glow. Luke rushes in as his Aunt Beru is putting the last of the dinner plates away.
Luke is out of breath and takes a few moments to compose himself. A realization crosses his mind and he suddenly seems much calmer.
Luke gives his aunt a big hug. He seems suddenly very sentimental and serious.
He gives her a little kiss on the cheek and leaves.
Morning slowly creeps into the sparse, but sparkling oasis of the open courtyard. The idyll is broken by the yelling of Uncle Owen, his voice echoing throughout the building.
Owen enters the courtyard in a huff, scattering the large gopher-like rodents. He opens the garage and notices the battered old landspeeder id missing.
Owen enters the garage and looks around. He picks up a magazine-like video slate sitting propped up on the bench. It generates a soft glow, as if it had been left on "hold." Beru hurries into the garage.
As Owen picks up the video-slate, it turns itself on and Luke's image appears.
The image fades and the old couple stare at one another. Beru's face is filled with a great loos. Finally she turns and leaves the garage, and Owen in disbelief.
The rock and sand of the desert floor are a blur as Threepio pilots the sleek landspeeder gracefully across the vast wasteland. Luke rides precariously on the back trunk of the vehicle adjusting something in the motor compartment.
Threepio signals that it is fine, and Luke climbs back into the wind-whipped cockpit and slides the canopy shut.
From high on a rock mesa, the tiny landspeeder can be seen gliding across the desert floor. Suddenly in the foreground two weather-beaten Tusken Raiders, shrouded in their grimy desert cloaks, peer over the edge of the rock mesa. One of the marginally human creatures raises a long ominous laser-rifle, and points it at the speeder, but the second creature grabs the gun before it can be fired.
The Tusken Raiders speak in a coarse barbaric language as they begin to get into an animated argument.
The second Tusken seems to get in the final word and the nomads scurry over the rocky terrain to where two large BANTHAS are standing tied to a rock. The mon- sterous bear-like creatures are as large as elephants, with huge red eyes, tremendous looped horns, and long furry dinosaur-like tails. The raiders mount saddles strapped to the huge creature's shaggy backs and ride off down the rugged bluff.
The battered landspeeder is parked on the top of a huge sand dune. Luke, with his long-barreled laser-rifle slung over his shoulder, makes his way past the bleached bones of a dinosaur-like beast. When he reaches the top of the ridge, he searches the landscape with his electro- binoculars. Threepio lifts Artoo out of the speeder and the stubby little robot struts around stretching his joints between irritated whistles. Luke is depressed as he returns to the speeder.
37INT. LUKE'S LANDSPEEDER - ROCK CANYON FLOOR (TRAVELING) 37 - DAY
Threepio maneuvers the powerful landspeeder around several massive boulders in the narrow canyon, as Luke intently studies the pulsing radar scope.
Luke carefully makes his way to the top of a rocky ridge and scans the canyon with his electrobinoculars, until he spots the two riderless Banthas. Threepio struggles up behind the young adventurer.
Luke watches the distant Tusken Raider through his elec- trobinoculars. Suddenly something huge moves in front of his field of view. Before Luke or Threepio can react, a large gruesome Tusken Raider looms over them. Threepio is startled and backs away, right off the side of the cliff. He can be heard for several moments as he clangs, bangs and rattles down the side of the mountain.
The towering creature brings down his glowing red laser- sword, but Luke manages to block the blow with his laser-rifle, which is neatly cut in half. The terrified farm boy scrambles backward until he is able to ignite his own laser-sword and defend himself. In a flurry of blows Luke is forced to the edge of a deep crevice. Luke stumbles under the mighty blows of the fearsome creature, drops his sword and almost tumbles over the cliff to his death. He hangs on for dear life as his feet dangle over the abyss. The sinister Raider stands over him and lets out a horrible shrieking laugh that echoes throughout the canyon.
Artoo forces himself into the shadows of a small alcove in the rocks as the vicious Tuskens walk past carrying armloads of supplies from the battered landspeeder. As they disappear, Artoo squirms out of his hiding place and waddles into the clearing where the speeder is parked.
The vehicle has been ransacked, and Luke is hanging in a state of bewilderment about ten feet in the air. Large gold bracelets with small antenna are attached to his wrists and ankles. He is spread-eagle and slowly rotating. Artoo stands above his master and beeps a few words of astonishment.
Artoo starts searching for something in the speeder that he might use to get his master down. He pulls a long length of wire out of the engine compartment and ties it into a lasso. As Luke slowly rotates around, Artoo swings the rope and catches the boy around the foot. The line goes taut but rather than pulling Luke down, little Artoo is pulled up as if he had roped a windmill. The stubby robot lets out an electronic shriek and drops to the ground with a crash.
At that moment footsteps are heard coming through the narrow canyon. Artoo scampers back into his hiding place. Luke's face is a roadmap of agony as the footsteps get louder.
A huge menacing shadow on the canyon wall gives way to a shabby old desert rat of a man, who appears to be at least seventy years old. His ancient leathery face, cracked and weathered by exotic climates, is set off by dark, penetrating eyes, and a scraggly white beard. BEN KENOBI squints his eyes as he scrutinizes Luke in his predicament.
The wizened old man begins to giggle like a child, putting his frail hand to his mouth in a vain attempt to contain himself. Luke becomes annoyed.
Much to Luke's surprise, the old codger draws his laser- pistol and blasts Luke point blank. The young farmer disappears in a cloud of smoke and drops to the ground. The old man leans over the boy as he rolls over with a loud groan.
Luke staggers to his feet as Artoo waddles up behind him and lets out a pathetic little beep.
Luke hobbles off toward the canyon bluff.
Little Artoo stops at the edge of a large gravel pit and begins to chatter away in electronic whistles and beeps. Luke slides down to where a very dented and tangled Threepio lies half buried in the gravel.
He tries to revive the inert robot by shaking him, and then flips a hidden switch on his back several times until finally the mechanical man's systems turn on.
The young farmer helps the battered robot to his feet. Old Ben and little Artoo watch from the top of the pit.
Luke and Old Ben struggle to help Threepio into the low-slung speeder. Artoo follows them, carrying a clawful of tiny parts which have dropped of his friend.
Luke bristles at the use of "boy."
Ben studies the young farmer through narrowed eyes. He suppresses a smile.
Luke notices the old man is impressed with his story, and begins to feel expansive.
Luke suddenly realizes the old man might be an Imperial spy and a worried look crosses his face. Ben laughs heartily.
Luke is embarrassed and concentrates on making Threepio comfortable.
Luke is dumbstruck. Then with a combination of awe and excitement he finds his voice.
Luke drops to his knees and bows before the old Jedi.
The old man rubs his beard in wonder.
The scruffy old Jedi smiles at the kneeling boy.
A sudden thought crosses Luke's mind and his enthusiasm turns to embarrassed silence.
The clean but spartan cave dwelling radiates an air of time worn comfort and security. The image of the beau- tiful rebel princess is projected from Artoo's face.
There is a little static and the transmission is cut short. The old man leans back and scratches his head. He silently puffs on a tarnished chrome water pipe.
The old man suddenly ignites in a rage and swings his left forearm down across the solid metal table with a mighty blow. His arm cracks in two, spewing forth wires and electronic components.
Luke bows his head in sorrow for one of the greatest warriors in the galaxy and a fallen idol. Ben is em- barrassed and makes a needless adjustment on the pot belly thermal heater, which radiates a warm glow through- out the room. Little Artoo begins to pick up the pieces of the old man's arm and reassemble them. The badly dented Threepio breaks the awkward silence by noisily standing up.
Luke nods his head. Old Ben leans back in his chair.
Luke tosses and turns in his sleep. Threepio sleeps peacefully. Luke keeps hearing the voice of Princess Leia calling out for help. Suddenly he sits up with a start. He hears Leia's voice coming from the main living area. Luke climbs out of bed and quietly makes his way through the darkened dwelling. He stops at the entrance to the main room.
Ben is sitting before the flickering hologram image of Princess Leia. The old man rests his head in his one good arm. His back is to Luke, but he senses the boy's presence.
Luke walks over and sits across from the old man.
The old man leans back and scratches his head smiling slightly.
Luke reluctantly stands and heads for the bedroom.
Artoo and Threepio carry supplies out of the cave dwell- ing to where Luke loads them into the landspeeder. Old Ben emerges into the sunlight and stretches his new arm.
Ben walks over to the speeder and puts his hand on Luke's shoulder.
Artoo and Threepio are already in the speeder, as Luke and old Ben climb in. The speeder starts with a low hum.
Three SITH LORDS are on their knees praying before a shining crystal placed on a tall altar. They mumble a strange electronic chant.
1ST SITH Darth, did you feel that?
Darth stands and stares at the crystal.
2ND SITH Was it an omen? What is it?
They file out of the chamber.
47EXT. UTAPAU - BLUFF OVERLOOKING MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT47 - DAY
The speeder zooms across the desert wasteland and eventually stops on a bluff overlooking the spaceport at MOS EISLEY. It is a haphazard array of low gray con- crete structures and semi-domes. A harsh gale blows across the stark canyon floor. Luke adjusts his goggles and walks to the edge of the craggy bluff, where Ben is standing.
48EXT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - SLUM DWELLING - DAY48 Luke stops the speeder before the remains of a burnt- out spaceship the size of a large jet fighter. Two scruffy figures huddle around a small thermal heater, attempting to use the decaying building as shelter against the howling winds. One of the rag-tag figures ventures over to the group in the speeder. It is obvious from his pint size that he is a Jawa. Artoo lets out a string of electronic beeps and whistles.
The wretched little creature moves close to the speeder and begins to run his gnarled hand across it.
Saliva dribbles from the dark hole where the Jawa's face should be and drops, splat on the hood of the speeder. Threepio repeats the question in the Jawa's language, and the vile creature points to the far end of the street and mumbles something.
The Jawa continues to fondle the speeder as Luke starts the magno-system. The filthy creature reluctantly jumps away as the speeder takes off and glides down the dingy spaceport street. A giant lizard scurries out of the wretched spaceship chased by a stubby Jawa.
The speeder pulls up in front of a rundown, blockhouse cantina on the outskirts of the spaceport. Various strange forms of transport, including several unusual beasts of burden, are parked outside the bar.
Luke, Ben and the two robots climb out of the speeder, and brace themselves against the constant shipping wind.
The young adventurer and his two mechanical servants fol- low Ben Kenobi into the smoke-filled cantina. The murky, moldy den is filled with a startling array of weird and exotic alien creatures and monsters, laughing at the long metallic bar. At first the sight is horrifying.
One-eyed, thousand-eyed, slimy, furry, scaly tentacles and claws huddle over drinks. Ben and Luke move to an empty spot at the bar near a group of repulsive but human Corellian pirates. A huge, rough-looking BARTENDER comes over to Luke and the robots.
Luke, still recovering from the shock of seeing so many outlandish creatures, doesn't quite catch the Bartender's drift.
Luke looks to Old Ben who is busy talking to one of the Corellian pirates. He notices that several of the grue- some creatures along the bar are giving him a very un- friendly glare.
Threepio and his stubby partner go outside and most of the creatures at the bar go back to their drinks. Ben is standing next to CHEWBACCA, an eight foot tall, savage-looking creature resembling a huge gray bushbaby- monkey with fierce 'baboon-like' fangs. His large yellow eyes dominate a fur-covered face and soften his otherwise awesome appearance. Over his matted, furry body he wears two chrome bandoliers, a flak jacket painted in a bizarre camouflage pattern, brown cloth shorts, and little else. He is a two hundred year old WOOKIEE, and a sight to behold. Ben speaks to the Wookiee in his own language, which is a little more than a series of grunts. The old man points to Luke several times during the conversation and the huge creature suddenly lets out a horrifying laugh. Luke is more than a little bit disconcerted, and pretends not to hear the conversation between Ben and the Giant Wookiee. He is terrified, but tries not to show it. He quietly sips his drink, looking over the crowd for a more sympathetic ear or whatever.
A large, multiple-eyed CREATURE gives Luke a rough shove.
The hideous freak is obviously drunk. Luke tries to ignore the Creature and turns back to his drink. A short, grubby HUMAN and an even smaller RODENT-like beast join the belligerent monstrosity.
The big Creature is getting agitated and yells some unintelligible gibberish at the now rather nervous young adventurer.
The rodent lets out a loud grunt and everything at the bar moves away. Luke tries to remain cool, but it isn't easy. His three adversaries ready their weapons. Old Ben moves in behind Luke.
A powerful blow from the unpleasant Creature sends the young would-be Jedi sailing across the room, crashing through tables and breaking a large jug filled with a foul-looking liquid. With a blood-curdling shriek, the monster draws a wicked chrome laser pistol from his belt and levels it at Old Ben. The Bartender panics.
With an astounding agility, Old Ben's laser-sword sparks to life and in a flash an arm lies on the floor. The rodent is cut in two and the giant, multiple-eyed Creature lies doubled, cut from chin to groin. Ben carefully and precisely turns off his laser-sword and replaces it on his utility belt. Luke, shaking and totally amazed at the old man's abilities, attempts to stand. The entire fight has lasted only a matter of seconds. The cantina goes back to normal, although Ben is given a respectable amount of room at the bar. Luke, rubbing his bruised head, approaches the old man with new awe.
Luke is still giddy, and downs a fresh drink.
Luke, Ben and the two lumbering robots follow the giant Wookiee along a narrow slum alleyway crowded with darkly-clad creatures hawking exotic goods in dingy little stalls. Men, monsters and robots crouch in waste- filled doorways whispering and hiding from the hot winds. The group enters a small doorway n a decaying stone building at the far end of the alley. Several robots guide a small herd of anteaters down the street.
Chewbacca leads the group along a tall gantry over- looking a long Rube Goldburg-pieced together contrap- tion, which can only be loosely called a spaceship. Luke gives Old Ben a skeptical look. Old Ben just smiles. As they approach the ship, it looks even more homemade and shabby than it did at a distance. The Wookiee calls out to someone inside the ship, but there is no reply.
A tall figure steps out of the shadows of the imposing spacecraft.
This is HAN SOLO, a tough James Dean style starpilot about twenty-five years old. A cowboy in a starship -- simple, sentimental and cocksure of himself.
Chewbacca steps forward and explains who the strangers are and what they want.
Luke is taken by surprise, thinking that Ben was going to take care of things. Han turns to Luke.
Ben and Luke step to one side.
Ben turns back to the young starcaptain.
Han thinks about this for a second.
Artoo and Threepio follow Luke and Ben as they hurry out of the starship hangar.
Ben glances back at Threepio.
A great worry sweeps across Luke's face as he looks back at the two unaware robots faithfully following after them.
Han Solo grins and slaps the monsterous wookiee across the back.
Chewbacca doesn't share Han's enthusiasm, and makes a couple of worrisome grunts.
A commotion filters down from the entry gantry and Chew- bacca whines pessimistic comment. A dozen or so gruff and grisly pirates approach the ship. The grossest of the slavering hulks is JABBA THE HUTT. His scarred face is a grim testimonial to his prowess as a vicious killer.
He laughs maniacally. Han is not amused.
It's a moment of great tension. Han glances at the four pirates standing near them. Two of the greasy brigands have their weapons pointed at him. The young starcaptain stands firm for a few moments with his hand resting on his utility belt only inches from his blaster. Chewbacca sways back and forth as he adjusts his weight from one foot to the other.
Han turns and reluctantly boards the ship. Jabba walks alongside Han and puts his arm around him.
53INT. MOS EISLEY - USED SPEEDER LOT - GARAGE OFFICE -53 NIGHT
Ben, Luke and the robots are standing in a sleazy used-speeder lot, talking with a tall, grotesque, insect- like used speeder dealer. Only Threepio can understand the creature's weird buzzing dialogue. Strange exotic bodies and spindly legged beasts pass by outside. Once in a while a large lizard or strange animal scurries across the junk-strewn floor.
Luke scratches his head and ponders the situation.
He looks at Ben, then Artoo, and finally Threepio.
Threepio buzzes to the salesman, who shakes his head.
They turn and start out of the rundown showroom.
Ben helps Artoo into the speeder as Luke climbs in the pilot's seat. The speeder starts up with a loud hum, but before Luke can back out of the garage area, the insect stops them.
Luke breaks out in a big smile and Ben manages a slight grin.
As Han and the huge Wookiee work their way past the sin- ister Jabba the Hutt, the pirate hands the young star- captain a bulky cloak.
Han doesn't mask his hatred for the loathsome pirate very well, but takes the cloak and follows the Chew- bacca toward the back of the ship. He stops by a small control panel, knocking it loose with his foot. The cover falls to the floor with a muted clang and the young mechanic looks around to see if anyone heard.
He takes a small metal bar and jams it between two cir- cuits, causing sparks to fly. He quickly replaces the cover and Han casually heads back toward the cockpit.
A short greasy looking pirate sits at the complex con- trols of the ship.
PIRATE PILOT We're on our way...
He pulls back on the power lever and the ship erupts into a cacophony of warning alarms and flashing lights. Smoke begins to issue from the panels. The pilot is startled and begins flipping switches wildly.
PIRATE PILOT I think... ahh, I have a problem here ... one of the reactor's gone wild. Captain, I have a reading way over a thousand.
Han rushes into the cockpit with a look of mock sur- prise on his face.
PIRATE PILOT You tell me! You built it.
Han works at the control console in a vain attempt to figure out what's going on.
Before Han can finish, the pilot has fled.
Jabba the Hutt and his crew scramble over one another trying to flee the starship before it goes super-nova.
The alarm system is suddenly cut short. Han quickly replaces the control panel and turns to see a foul- looking pirate named MONTROSS standing over him.
Montross reaches for his laser-pistol, but Han is faster and gets the drop on him.
Han struggles to his feet and leads the pirate to the escape hatch.
Chewbacca appears at the main hatch holding a hidden gun on Montross as Ben, Luke and the robots saunter up to the starship. The huge Wookiee lets out with a loud wail that startles Luke.
Han rushes toward the cockpit as Chewbacca helps Ben aboard the starship. The Wookiee shoves Montross out the hatch just as it slams shut.
Luke is a little puzzled by all the smoke and confusion.
A lumbering Jabba the Hutt and the remains of his ter- rified crew stop in the street and try to collect themselves.
A strange assortment of alien creatures and robots watch Jabba from their cool alcoves along the edge of the street. The ground trembles and the pirates turn to see the mighty pirate starship riding above the dingy slum dwellings. The pirates stand dumbfounded, as the star- ship quickly disappears.
Han sits back in the huge pilot's chair and puts his feet up on the control panel. Chewbacca, crowded into the copilot's seat, mutters his amazement.
He chuckles as the surface of Utapau slowly drifts out of view of the cockpit windows and is replaced by a sparkling carpet of stars.
Chewbacca barks a few words of caution.
Little Artoo appears momentarily in the doorway, makes a few beeping remarks, then scurries away.
Threepio helps Ben and Luke put away their gear in the cramped bunk area of the starship.
Suddenly Ben grabs his head and slowly collapses to the floor. Luke rushes to him.
The old man lapses into unconsciousness for several moments. Luke doesn't know what to do. Finally he goes to Old Ben and lifts his head. The battered old Jedi shudders all over, then regains consciousness.
Luke helps Ben to his bunk. He's still shaking from the experience.
Princess Leia is awakened by the blinding light of the hallway as the cell door silently slides open and Darth Vader enters the cell.
Leia watches her captor impassionately.
Leia tries not to reveal the shock and pain, but she is stunned.
Vader starts to leave.
The door slides closed behind Vader, leaving Leia alone in the darkness.
Han enters the cramped but comfortable main hold area of the starship and begins checking charts and various computer readouts.
Chewbacca and the two robots sit around a lighted table covered with many small hologram figures. Each side of the table has a small computer monitor embedded in it.
Luke and Old Ben are sitting in the corner, the old man apparently asleep as Luke cleans a chrome laser- pistol. he acts like it's brand new. he seems very proud of it.
Chewbacca seems very pleased with himself as he rests his lanky fur-covered arms over his head. Artoo immediately reaches up and taps the computer with his stubby claw hand, causing one of the hologram figures to walk to a new square. A sudden frown crosses Chewbacca's face and he begins yelling gibberish at the tiny robot. Threepio intercedes on behalf of his small companion and begins to argue with the huge Wookiee.
Luke sights down the barrel of his new pistol. Old Ben opens his eyes. It's obvious he wasn't asleep.
Han has been overhearing what Ben has been telling Luke and obviously has a low opinion of the Force of Others.
The cockpit is alive with humming meters and softly buzzing readouts. Han is busy at the controls as Luke looks on in wonder.
Old Ben enters the crowded cockpit.
Han is rather grim-faced.
Ben moves in and studies the monitors.
Luke sits back and stares blankly at the monitors.
Ben shakes his head sadly.
Little Artoo is standing on the gaming table projecting the princess into the middle of the group. Han has a perplexed look on his face as he ponders the hologram. Ben leans back in his chair quietly waiting, while Luke watches the princess with a wistful, smile, far-away look. Finally the hologram ends.
He thinks about this for a few moments. Luke begins to get a little edgy.
Ben gets lost in his thoughts for a few moments.
Ben is thinking and doesn't hear Han's protest. He turns to Luke.
Han is slightly embarrassed by Luke.
Everyone looks at Han, and he instantly regrets what he has said.
The cockpit is a quiet hum of computers as Han works diligently on a complex calculation. Chewbacca enters the cabin just as the ship begins to shudder violently. After a few moments the buffeting stops.
Chewbacca grunts an acknowledgement and points to a very large and bright star out the front window bay.
Luke stands in the middle of the small hold area. He seems frozen in place, a humming laser-sword held high over his head. Ben watches him from the corner, study- ing his movements. Han enters and watches with a bit of smugness.
Suspended at eye level -- about ten feet in front of Luke -- a chrome baseball covered with antenna hovers slowly in a wide arc. The ball floats to one side of the youth, then to the other. Suddenly it makes a lightning swift lunge and stops within a few feet of Luke's face. Luke doesn't move, and the ball backs off. It slowly moves behind the boy, then makes another quick lunge, this time emitting a blood red laser beam as it attacks.
Luke sparks to life. With one amazingly swift move, he turns and swings his laser-sword, deflecting the beam. The seeker shuts off and lands on the floor.
Ben is pleased, and Han is quite impressed.
Luke is sort of embarrassed with all the attention.
Han smiles knowingly.
Ben places a large helmet on Luke's head which covers his eyes.
Han skeptically shakes his head as Ben throws the seeker into the air. The ball shoots straight up in the air, then drops like a rock. Luke swings the laser- sword around blindly missing the seeker, which fires off a laser bolt, which hits Luke square on the seat of his pants. He lets out a painful yell and attempts to hit the seeker, coming amazingly close, but he is hit several more times before he manages to finally deflect one of the bolts. The ball ceases firing and moves back to its original position. Luke removes the helmet and is a sweaty, exhausted mess.
Han in a split second draws his laser-pistol and blasts the seeker. The ship begins to shudder, then a distant warning signal goes off.
Han slumps in his seat with a dejected look.
A CONTROLLER sits in a huge complex control room with massive screens projecting maps of various star systems. An Imperial COMMANDER sits next to him.
Chaos. Red scramble lights are flashing. Alert horns and attack buzzers create an unbelievable cacophony. Imperial starpilots in black armored spacesuits grab their helmets and space packs as they scramble out the door.
Pilots dash in unison to a line of small auxiliary corridors that lead to Imperial "tie" fighters. Tech- nical crews scurry here and there loading last minute armament and unlocking power cables.
The long ornate pirate starship approached the gray gaseous planet of Alderaan. The ship is not propelled, but simply drifts crab-like toward the planet. As it approaches the surface, huge billowing clouds extend out like menacing tentacles. The peacefulness of this nebulous idyll is broken by the increasing wail of ion engines. Suddenly four sleek spacefighters from the Imperial third fleet burst from the huge cumulus range. The craft are small cylindrical power shells dominated by two huge solar fins. They are flying in a tight formation. Then two bank steeply and head toward the drifting starship.
The Imperial fighters are one-man craft crammed with sophisticated electronic weaponry.
The pilot is cold and professional as his craft closes in on the drifting starship.
The controller looks to the Commander for instructions.
Several of the tiny Imperial fighters drift in orbit around the pirate starship as a block-like boarding vessel attaches itself to the underside of the disabled starship.
Entering through an escape hatch, several heavily armed Imperial stormtroopers cautiously work their way down the main corridor of the pirate starship. As they are about to enter the cockpit area, they hear a loud clanking movement. The ferocious stormtroopers freeze and simultaneously direct their awesome weapons at the cockpit hatchway. Two of the troopers start to edge their way toward the cockpit. The tension becomes almost palpable, until finally the gangling, bronze Threepio pops his "Art Deco" head out of the hatchway.
The OFFICER talks to his commander on his head phones.
The Officer indicates that Threepio should move out of the cockpit. Two guards grab the puzzled robot.
The Officer enters the cockpit. Threepio is completely confused as the stormtroopers rush around completely ignoring him. The troops search the ship with small hand scanners. The Officer sits in the pilot's seat of the deserted ship and begins to feed information into the computer. He opens a com-line to the main base.
A TROOPER enters the cockpit.
The towering white oxide clouds pass, revealing the Imperial city of Alderaan. The magnificent domed and gleaming city is perched, mushroom-like, on a tall spire which disappears deep into the misty surface of the planet. The little procession of Imperial "tie" fighters follows the larger pirate ship toward the city. The Imperial Officer guides the ship toward one of the numerous huge open bays that ring the specta- cular city.
A cell door silently slides open revealing the uncon- scious body of the princess slumped on a table-like bed. Vader and two OFFICERS exit the cell and the door silently slides shut again.
1ST OFFICER The hidden bases have to be somewhere in the southwest. That's something... I'll start a search operation.
The Commander approaches the Dark Lord and bows.
The Commander exits. The Officer points back to Leia's cell.
1ST OFFICER What about her?
The pirate starship rests in a huge hangar bay. Thirty or so guards march up to the craft as a ramp lowers and the boarding troops disembark.
BOARDING OFFICER It's just a piece of drift junk. It has some interesting innovations though. Send in a research team before you start the salvage operation. Post your guards.
A lone trooper runs through the hallway heading for the exit. In a few moments, all is quiet. The muffled sounds of a distant officer giving orders finally fade. Threepio sneaks down the hallway, pulls on a latch, and a panel on a row of low cabinets crashes to the floor. Han Solo's head pokes out of the hold and looks around the hallway. He then pulls himself out of his cramped quarters and struts around, stretching his legs. A second locker breaks open and Luke emerges. Chewbacca pokes his furry head out of the first locker and Han tells him the way is clear.
Ben Kenobi sticks his head out of one of the lockers.
Luke is suddenly seized with panic. He turns to Han.
He slams a panel to the deck and immediately regrets it. Everyone looks around as if an alarm had gone off.
Two GUARDS stand on either side of the ramp leading to the pirate starship. One of the guards hears something inside the spacecraft. The second guard hears it also and speaks into the headphone in his helmet.
SECOND GUARD We've picked up a disturbance inside the starship. Proceeding to investigate.
The two Guards enter the spacecraft.
In a small control tower above the starship a GANTRY OFFICER speaks into his intercom.
GANTRY OFFICER What is it?
SECOND GUARD (V.O.) I don't hear it now... It must have been the droid... Wait... what?
The transmission goes dead. The Gantry Officer switches to another channel. The Officer's aide looks up from his desk.
GANTRY OFFICER T-4, come in, T-4... Do you copy? Are you all right?
There is a bit of static and a heavily filtered voice comes on.
LUKE'S VOICE We're fine... Com-link jammed.
GANTRY OFFICER Find anything?
The Gantry Officer gives his aide a puzzled look, then speaks into the com-link.
GANTRY OFFICER T-4, you sound a little funny... T-4, what's your operating code?... T-4, are you there?
The only thing that comes over the com-link is static. The Gantry Officer gets up and heads for the door.
GANTRY OFFICER Take over. It could just be another bad transmitter, but I'd better check.
As the Officer approaches the door, it slides open revealing the towering Chewbacca. The Gantry Officer is in a momentary state of shock, as he stumbles back- ward. With a bone-chilling howl, the giant Wookiee flattens the Officer with one blow. The aide imme- diately reaches for his pistol, but is blasted by Han, which sets off a series of small explosions on the control panel. Han and Luke enter the room dressed as Imperial stormtroopers.
Ben feeds some information into the computer, and a map of the city appears on the monitor. He begins to inspect it carefully. Threepio and Artoo look over the control panel. Artoo finds something that makes him whistle wildly.
Han and Luke rush over to the robots. Chewbacca busies himself with hanging the Gantry Officer by his toes.
Artoo punches his claw arm into the computer socket and the vast Imperial brain network comes to life, feeding information to the little robot. After a few moments he beeps something to Threepio.
Old Ben slips out of the control bay and disappears down a long gray hallway. Han whistles for Chewbacca to join them. Luke binds the huge Wookiee with elec- tronic cuffs. The Wookiee has a worried and slightly frightened look on his face. Han reassures him and straightens his jacket.
Luke and Han put on their armored helmets and start off into the giant Imperial city of Alderaan.
Han and Luke try to look inconspicuous in their armored suits as they wait for a vacuum elevator to arrive. Troops, bureaucrats and robots bustle about ignoring the trio completely. Only a few give the giant Wookiee a curious glance. Finally a small elevator arrives and the trio enter. A bureaucrat races to get aboard also, but is signaled away by Han. The door to the pod-like vehicle slides closed and it takes off through a vacuum tube. Han rubs his hand across a series of small holes.
He gives Luke a skeptical look.
Old Ben walks very quietly behind two Imperial officers who don't seem to be aware of his presence. They pass several stormtroopers and a robot similar to Threepio but no one appears to notice Ben. The old man deftly slips down a sub-hallway and hides in a shallow alcove as a patrol of twenty guards passes. He rushes down an ever smaller hallway and disappears.
The giant Wookiee and his two guards enter the old, gray security station. Guards and laser gates are everywhere. Han whispers to Luke under his breath.
A tall, grim-looking OFFICER approaches the trio.
The Officer goes back to his console and begins to punch in the information. There are only three other troopers in the area. Luke and Han survey the situation, checking all of the alarms, laser gates and camera eyes. Han unfastens one of Chewbacca's electronic cuffs and shrugs to Luke.
Suddenly Chewbacca throws up his hands and lets out with one of his ear-piercing howls. He grabs Han's laser- sword and ignites it, pushing Han against the wall.
The startled guards are momentarily dumbfounded. Luke and Han have already pulled out their laser-pistols and are blasting away at the terrifying Wookiee. Their barrage of laser fire misses Chewbacca, but hits the camera eyes, laser gate controls and the Imperial guards. The Officer is the last of the guards to fall under the laser fire, just as he is about to push the alarm system. Luke rushes over to the com-link system, which is screeching questions about what is going on. Han and Chewbacca disappear down one of the sub-hallways.
INTERCOM VOICE We'll send a squad up.
INTERCOM VOICE With four casualties?!
INTERCOM VOICE Who is this? What's your operating...
Luke cuts off the com-link and yells down the cell row to Han.
Han stops before cell 2187 and yells something to Chew- bacca, who covers his face as the young pirate blasts the door away with his laser pistol. When the smoke clears, Han looks in the cell and an expression of horror crosses his face.
Suspended inside the cell by invisible rays, a bloody and mutilated Leia Organa hangs upside down. A strange yellow glow radiates from her eyes. Chewbacca rushes into the cell past the dazed Han. The Wookiee yells something and Han comes to, firing his pistol at a small control box in the wall. The unconscious princess drops like a rock into the giant Wookiee's arms. Chew- bacca slings her over his shoulder and joins Han in the hallway.
A series of explosions knock a hole in the wall through which several Imperial troops begin to emerge. Luke fires his laser pistol at them through the smoke and flames. He turns and runs down the cell hallway. He takes a small com-link transmitter from his belt.
Han pulls up the rusty grate leading to a service pas- sageway and helps Chewbacca lift the inert princess into the black tunnel.
Threepio paces the control center as little Artoo beeps and whistles a blue streak. Threepio yells into the small com-link transmitter.
The transmitter squawks a short reply and Threepio peeks out the tower window at the starship. All is quiet. He then moves to the door and it slides open a crack. Several troops rush past, yelling and shouting order. Threepio slams the door shut and pushes the lock lever. Someone begins banging on the door.
Ben starts into the hallway leading to the crystal cham- ber, just as two Sith Lords are leaving. the old man ducks into the nearest doorway which opens and swallows him up.
Ben finds himself in a small conference room filled with about a dozen or so bureaucrats listening to an instructor who is explaining a type of technical philosophy. The class turns and stares at the old man. Ben raises his hands and all the bureaucrats, including the instructor, begin coughing and grabbing at their throats. They are unable to breather and eventually collapse on the floor.
One of the Sith Lords stops in the hallway opposite the classroom door.
1ST LORD What is it?
2ND LORD Do you feel that?
1ST LORD I don't feel anything.
2ND LORD Maybe you're too young. It's the Force... If I didn't know better I'd say we were in the presence of a Jedi knight.
The first Sith Lord puts his hand to his ear as a message comes through on his helmet intercom.
1ST LORD They're calling for us again on the prison level.
The two Dark Lords hurry off down the hallway and Old Ben silently exits the classroom.
Luke leads Han and the Wookiee down the ever-darkening, narrow passageway. Han and Luke switch on small lights in their gunbelts. The rhythmic marching of storm- troopers seem to be getting louder. Muffled voices can be heard. Luke stops before an intersecting hallway.
Luke grabs his belt com-link and attempts to contact Threepio.
Static and no reply.
As they descend into the bowels of the city, the eerie, slimy corridor becomes narrower and filled ankle-deep with water and ooze.
A soft buzzer and the muted voice of Luke calling out for See Threepio can be heard on Threepio's hand com- link which is sitting on the deserted computer console. Artoo and Threepio are nowhere in sight. Suddenly there is a great explosion and the door to the control tower flies across the floor. Four armed stormtroopers enter the chamber. A muffled voice can be heard coming from one of the supply cabinets.
The troops inspect the dead bodies and release Threepio from the supply cabinets. Artoo is shut down and does not move.
The troops hustle off down the hallway, leaving two guards to watch over the control room.
Threepio takes a round disk-like object and attaches it to Artoo's head, which lifts him a foot off the ground and moves him toward the door.
The guard nods and Threepio with little Artoo in tow hurries out the door.
Artoo sparks to life and the two robots scurry off down the empty hallway.
Old Ben carefully approaches the pedestal on which the Kiber Crystal is resting. He gracefully sidesteps a series of invisible beams. It looks as if he is doing a strange dance. Ben stops about five feet in front of the Crystal. His eyes light up, and it appears he is renewed with a new inner strength.
Ben lifts his arms and slowly the Crystal begins to rise off the pedestal and move toward the old Jedi. The intense glow of the magical stone increases as it passes through an invisible protective death ray. Just before it reaches Ben's hand, it passes through a blue beam that sets off an alarm which instantan- eously slams the door shut and the room glows a bright red.
The passageway has gotten so small that Han, Luke and Chewbacca must walk sideways. The princess is standing between Luke and the Wookiee and is semi-conscious.
Suddenly the way opens up to a wide, low-ceilinged corridor that is filled with water about waist high. At the far end of the tunnel is a small light. Chew- bacca puts the princess back over his shoulder.
The princess wakes up and is thoroughly confused by her surroundings.
The two boys wade into the submerged corridor, but Chew- bacca won't enter. He frantically begins sniffing the air and jabbers something to Han.
Chewbacca won't budge. He seems terribly afraid of something in the water. Han wades back and pulls the huge Wookiee carrying the princess into the water.
The group moves forward through the dark corridor, unaware of the ominous ripples on the water's surface.
The giant Wookiee stops and howls something to Han. The young starcaptain talks to the frightened creature and eventually calms him down. The dim light at the end of the corridor glimmers and becomes stronger.
A loud, horrible, inhuman moan works its way up from the murky depths followed by a huge jellyfish-like form, which shoots out of the water and towers above the pet- rified group. Chewbacca lets out a terrified howl and begins to back away. Han and Luke stand fast with their laser-pistols drawn. The Wookiee is cowering near one of the walls with the groggy princess on his shoulder.
Han fires directly at the center of the beast. His laser bolt passes through the huge creature and explodes against a far wall. The light from the blast reveals a little more of the Dia Nogu, which is transparent with long slimy tentacles.
The huge shape, breathing loud and deep, submerges again and the telltale ripples head toward Luke.
Han turns and wades back to Chewbacca, who is huddled against the wall. The Wookiee is shaking and wailing like a small child. In the thin light provided by the small door at the end of the passageway, the faint out- line of the Dia Nogu can be seen as it swims by Luke.
Suddenly Luke is yanked underwater. Han has blindfolded Chewbacca and is attempting to lead the Wookiee and the princess toward the lighted opening at the far end of the tunnel.
Luke surfaces with a gasp of air and thrashing of limbs with a membrane tentacle wrapped around his throat.
Luke is dragged under again. Han grabs the princess and makes his way around the treacherous creature to the small opening at the end of the passageway. Luke bobs to the surface with a severed tentacle dangling around his neck.
Luke tries to swim away, but is grabbed by the creature. Han fires his laser-pistol into the ceiling above the creature, knocking rocks and debris on top of it. The Dia Nogu thrashes about for a few moments, then the water's calm, and all is quiet. There is no sign of Luke. Han bows his head as the hope drains from his face. Chewbacca lifts the princess through the small opening in the wall, then struggles to squeeze himself through also. Han starts to turn back toward the escape hole, when Luke pops out of the water with a gasp and starts swimming like mad toward the starcaptain.
The boys rush up to the small escape port only to find Chewbacca stuck. Luke begins pushing the Wookiee as Han turns and fires off another blast at the ceiling. A rush of rock and debris temporarily holds off the charging Dia Nogu. Han helps Luke push Chewbacca through the hole. Then the two boys scamper to safety just before the fear- some creature begins another charge.
The group is standing in a dusty unused hallway. The Dia Nogu bangs against the opening and a long slimy tentacle works its way out of the doorway searching for a victim. Han aims his pistol. The princess is groggy, but conscious. She takes command of the situation.
Han fires at the doorway, creating an avalanche of rubble which buries the monster.
The noise of the blast echoes relentlessly throughout the empty passageway. Luke simply shakes his head in disgust.
Han is stunned at the command of the petite young girl. Luke bows before the princess.
The group moves swiftly down the deserted corridor. The awkward silence is broken by Han, who's about had it with the princess.
Troops carry the two unconscious guards from the pirate starship and march past Threepio and little Artoo, who are hidden near a tiny service panel. Artoo removes the panel and sticks his claw arm into the socket. The little robot's circuits immediately light up and one of his antenna begins to spin wildly. Smoke begins to pour from him before Threepio can pull him loose. Artoo lets out with a few wilted beeps as he cools off.
Artoo whistles a mournful reply and trudges off behind some canisters to look for another socket.
A half dozen troops are milling around outside the crystal chamber. An Imperial COMMANDER approaches, and they all snap to attention.
No one moves. Finally a SERGEANT speaks up.
The troops lower their weapons as the heavy door is un- locked. The door swings open to reveal the withered old Jedi, standing with his laser-sword drawn. For a brief moment the Commander and his men are stunned.
Before the troops can fire their weapons Old Ben has moved through them swinging his deadly blade, cutting the troops to ribbons. The old man flees down the hall- way with what's left of the troops vainly attempting to blast him.
Luke, Han, Chewbacca and Princess Leia run down an empty hallway and stop before a bay window overlooking the pirate starship. Luke takes out his pocket com-link.
Han is watching the dozen or so troops moving in and out of the starship.
The two boys rush down the hallway, followed by the lum- bering Chewbacca and Princess Leia. They round a corner and run smack dab into twenty Imperial stormtroopers heading towards them. Both groups are taken by surprise and stop in their tracks. Before even thinking, Han draws his laser-pistol and charges the troops, yelling at the top of his lungs. The troops are startled by this assault and start to back off. Han manages to cut several down before the rest flee in panic. Pleased with his prowess, Han starts after them, yelling back to Luke as he goes.
Han has already rounded a corner and does not hear. Chew- bacca, quite upset at his master's disappearance, lets out a mighty howl and chases after him.
Luke is furious but doesn't have time to think about it, for muted alarms begin to go off down on the hangar deck. Luke and the princess start off toward the starship hangar.
Han chases the ten stormtroopers down a long sub-hallway. He is yelling and brandishing his laser-pistol. The troops reach a deadend and are forced to turn and fight. Han stops a few feet from them and assumes a defensive position. He is ready to cut them down. The troops begin to raise their laser guns. Soon all ten troopers are moving into an attack position in front of the lone starpirate. Han's determined look begins to fade as the troops begin to advance.
Chewbacca runs down the sub-hallway in a last-ditch attempt to save his bold captain. Suddenly he hears the firing of laser guns and yelling. Around the corner shoots Han Solo, pirate extraordinaire, running for his life, followed by a host of furious stormtroopers. Chewbacca turns and starts running the other way also. They run around several corners and the troops drop behind.
Old Ben hides in the shadows of a narrow passageway as twenty or thirty stormtroopers rush past him in the main hallway. He checks to make sure they're gone, then runs down the hallway in the opposite direction.
Little Artoo carefully plugs his claw arm into a new wall socket, and a complex array of electronic sounds spew from the tiny robot.
Luke and the princess run down a hallway and reach a complex blast shield door. Luke is talking into his com-link.
Han and Chewbacca come lumbering around the corner and rush up to Luke and the princess.
A multi-layered series of doors begin to open behind them, just as the squad of stormtroopers that are chasing Han and Chewbacca round the corner and start firing on the rebels. Han returns the fire and the hallway quickly fills up with smoke and confusion as the final hatch swings open.
They turn and start into the main spaceport causeway. A few steps into the causeway the group stops short. Two Dark Lords of the Sith, leading about thirty storm- troopers, stride toward them. Luke and Han let loose with their blasters, then follow the princess and the Wookiee back into the first hallway. Luke takes out his com-link.
The five layers of the door instantly slam shut. Laser bolts continued to ricochet around them.
Luke shrugs his shoulders. The stormtroopers continue their assault, filling the hallway with smoke and debris.
She rushes over to a large slit in the wall somewhat like a storm drain. She jumps through the narrow open- ing as Han and Chewbacca look on in amazement. Chew- bacca says something.
He shoves the Wookiee into the tiny opening and the Wookiee disappears into the darkness followed quickly by Han. Luke fires off a couple of quick blasts, creating a smoky cover, then slides into the garbage chute and is gone. When the smoke clears, the troops advance.
Luke tumbles into a large room filled with garbage and muck. Han and Chewbacca are already stumbling around looking for an exit. He finds a small hatchway and struggles to get it open. It won't budge.
He draws his laser-pistol and fires at the hatch. The laser bolt ricochets wildly around the small metal room. Everyone dives for cover in the garbage as the bolt explodes almost on top of them. Leia climbs out of the garbage with a rather grim look on her face.
LEIA Put that thing away or you're going to get us all killed.
Luke and the princess go over to help Chewbacca, who is straining to open the emergency latch. Han moves about in the muck. Suddenly the walls of the garbage recep- tacle shudder and move in a couple of inches. Then everything is deathly quiet.
Before anyone can say anything the walls begin to rumble and edge toward the rebels.
They place poles and long metal beams between the closing walls, but they are simply snapped and bent as the giant trash masher rumbles on. The situation doesn't look good.
The room gets smaller and smaller until it is only three feet wide. Garbage is snapping and popping as it is crushed by the relentless walls. Luke's com-link begins to buzz, and he pulls it off his belt.
The rumbling walls continue. It looks hopeless, and then they stop. Everyone breathes a sigh of relief. Luke goes over to the pressure hatch and scrapes some muck off a number.
The huge blast shield door slides open and the storm- troopers on either side almost shoot each other, but quickly realize they have been tricked. The Sith Lords point to the garbage chute.
Old Ben hurries along one of the tunnels leading to the starship hangar. Just before he is about to reach the hangar, Darth Vader steps into view at the end of the tunnel not more than ten feet away.
The fearsome dark knight ignites his laser-sword and takes a defensive stance. The two galactic warriors stand per- fectly still for a few moments, sizing each other up and waiting for the right moment. Old Ben seems to be under increasing pressure and strain, as if an invisible weight were being placed upon him. He shakes his head and, blinking, tries to clear his eyes.
Ben makes a sudden lunge at the huge warrior but is checked by a lightning movement of the Sith. A master- ful slash-stroke by Vader is blocked by the old Jedi. Another of the Jedi's blows is blocked, then countered. Ben moves around the Dark Lord and starts backing into the massive starship hangar. The two powerful warriors stand motionless for a few moments with laser-swords locked in mid-air, creating a low buzzing sound.
Threepio looks up and sees Ben emerging from the hallway.
Threepio ducks out of sight as the seven stormtroopers who were guarding the starship rush past them heading toward Ben and the Sith knight. When the robot ven- tures another peek, he spots Han, Luke, Chewbacca and the princess running out of a tunnel on the other side of the starship and heading toward them. He pulls on Artoo.
Ben sees the troops charging toward him and realizes that he is trapped. Vader takes advantage of Ben's momentary distraction and brings his mighty laser-sword down on the old man. But Ben manages to deflect the blow, swiftly turning around, cutting a safety lock on the blast door. Vader is standing in the access tunnel, while Ben is in the huge hangar, and the heavy blast door slams down between them, trapping Vader in the tunnel.
Ben instantly turns toward the troops. They stop in their tracks and start to raise their weapons. Before they can fire a shot, a laser bolt explodes in the middle of them, creating havoc. The troops turn around to see Luke and Han firing on them from the ramp of the starship. Threepio and Artoo run up the ramp and dis- appear inside the ship. Chewbacca appears at the door of the pirate ship and throws a dead stormtrooper onto the hangar floor. Luke turns to Han.
As Han starts up the ramp, Leia grabs the laser-pistol out of his hand. Han starts to grab it back, then thinks better of it and rushes into the starship. Ben charges into the troops, cutting them down as he goes. Luke is forced to stop firing and runs to the old man's aid with his laser-sword drawn. Several of the troops flee in panic, but the two that remain fire their laser- pistols point blank at the old man. Ben deflects the bolt, but it explodes near him and he slumps to the floor in a heap. Luke cuts down the remaining troops and rushes to the old Jedi's side.
Ben is still alive, but badly hurt. A fresh squad of stormtroopers appear at a second tunnel, and Leia fires off a blast that makes them duck for cover.
Luke struggles to drag the old man toward the ship under the constant fire of the Imperial troops. Luke fires back whenever possible and manages to keep the troops at bay. The princess takes careful aim and hits the safety lock on the blast door, causing it to slam shut, leaving only three troops left in the hangar. The princess runs down the ramp and helps Luke drag the old man aboard. Luke puts away his laser-pistol and takes out his com-link.
Han pulls back on the controls and the ship begins to move. The dull thud of laser bolts can be heard bounc- ing of the outside of the ship. The princess enters the cockpit with a worried look on her face.
The pirate starship lifts away from the starship bay and quickly disappears into the cloud sea of Alderaan. The three troops continue to fire at the retreating ship.
The blast doors quickly slide open revealing Darth Vader, an Imperial commander and many troops. The Dark Lord casually enters the hangar bay and speaks to the commander.
Chewbacca enters the crowded cockpit and jabbers away to Han. The young starcaptain jumps up while speaking into the com-link.
Chewbacca squeezes into the pilot's chair next to the princess. Han notices the skeptical look on Leia's face.
121INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - GUN PORTS - AFT SECTION -121 TRAVELING
Luke is firing one of the two main laser cannons mounted in large rotating bubble turrets. He adjusts his headphones and searches his electronic tracking screen for the Imperial fighters.
LEIA (V.O.) (over headphones) Here come six more... grid two!
Han jumps into the turret opposite Luke and begins to strap himself in. The pirate starship shudders as the Imperial fighters open fire. Luke's turret swings around as he continues to return the fire. Moments later Han lowers his glare reflector and with a burst of smoke and electrical charge opens up on the enemy craft. One of the Imperial fighters is hit by a con- centrated barrage and begins spinning out of control, until it finally explodes. Han gives Luke a victory wave, which Luke gleefully returns.
Imperial fighters buzz about everywhere. The constant flashing of deflected laser bolts reflect in the inter- ior of the turret bubble.
The robots secure the wounded Ben Kenobi in a bunk. A huge explosion throws Artoo and Threepio crashing against the passageway wall.
Over the com-link the princess gives instructions as to the enemy formations. Several more Imperial ships ex- plode and disappear from view. The pirate starship undergoes a great deal of punishment as the battle rages.
The cockpit is alive with warning lights and buzzers, but Chewbacca manages to keep things under control.
Chewbacca pulls back on several of the levers before him and the ship surges away from the tiny fighters. The pirate starship races through the galaxy at an incredible speed.
125INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - GUN PORTS - AFT SECTION -125 TRAVELING
Luke and Han continue to fire at the Imperial fighters.
One explodes, then another.
Luke and Han congratulate each other on their victory.
Leia follows little Artoo into the sleep area where Threepio and Luke are trying to make Old Ben comfortable. Han finishes putting away some medical supplies as the princess enters.
LEIA (CONT'D) We captured the plans in a raid on the Imperial shipyards, but we fell under attack before I could get the data to safety, so I hid it in this Artoo unit and sent him off.
Han exits as Old Ben painfully lifts himself on one elbow.
Threepio helps the old man lie back.
The battered pirate starship drifts into orbit around the emerald green fourth moon of Yavin.
Han and Chewbacca are at the controls as Luke hurries into the cockpit.
Two small lifepods jettison away from the starship and slowly drift toward the awesome deep green surface of the moon. Retro-rockets automatically kick in and slow the pods. The two tiny craft break through the light cloud cover and disappear in the dense, steaming jungles of Yavin's fourth moon.
One of the lifepods has come to rest in the middle of a small clearing. Han, Luke and Threepio emerge from the capsule into a forest of gargantuan trees shrouded in an eerie mist. The air is heavy with the fantastic cries of unimaginable creatures.
A loud crashing sound is heard coming through the jungle. Han instantly draws his laser-pistol and then relaxes when he sees that it is Chewbacca leading Leia and little Artoo into the clearing.
The princess has a knowing smile on her face as Han looks around in the nearby jungle and realizes they are surrounded by twenty rebel Aquillian rangers. The rebel soldiers break out of the dark foliage and approach the group. The princess meets them a short way from the group and gives out a series of animated orders. The soldiers begin to rush about. Four of them attach a lifting disk on Artoo and easily carry him off. Two other rangers help Luke lift Old Ben out of the landing pod and onto a stretcher. The princess rejoins the group.
Luke is surprised at Han's desire to leave and is clearly disappointed.
An ancient temple rots in the dense jungle.
In the bowels of the temple a massive and sophisticated war room has been constructed. The princess stands before a large electronic wall display surrounded by a half dozen field commanders. Luke, Han, Chewbacca and Threepio are milling around just outside the war room. An OFFICER enters and hooks up a headphone to the dis- play board. Artoo is standing near the princess with his arm plugged into a computer panel.
Everyone turns to the big board where various schematics of a large round space station are displayed.
The display flashes a close angle of the north pole of the complex globe.
A large, sallow-eyed general named AAY ZAVOS fiddles nervously with a small hand computer.
The GRAND MOUFF TARKIN, the thin commander of the out- land Kesselian Dagoons, stands.
Most of the commanders hurry out of the room. Two of the generals stay with the princess and go over the Death Star readout. Han and Luke watch as the com- manders rush out of the war room. Han is getting im- patient and before Luke can stop him, he has pushed past the guards and approached the princess.
A grin slides across Han's face.
The two rebel generals look at one another almost not believing their ears. Luke starts to say something, but the princess turns to an officer.
The princess then turns to Luke. She is very cold and businesslike.
Old Ben rests in the cool, dim quiet of an electronic medical chamber. Luke and Han are by his side.
He shakes his head. Luke extends his hand.
They shake hands. Han starts to leave, then turns and winks.
Chewbacca is waiting for him outside the room, and they hurry off down the hallway. Luke turns back to Ben.
He pulls the Kiber Crystal out of his tunic and it radi- ates a warm glow through out the small room. Luke takes it.
Luke lowers his head in a kind of meditation.
Luke stands up as Threepio and Artoo enter.
Luke pats the lanky robot on the back.
Artoo lets out with a couple of soft beeps.
He turns and starts out the door.
The stubby little droid waddles out of the room after his master.
The Grand Mouff Tarkin stands before a large projection of the north pole of the Death Star. Four squad com- manders (BLUE LEADER, RED LEADER, etc.) sit to one side of the giant readout. The low ceilinged room is filled with starpilots, navigators, and a sprinkling of Artoo- type robots. Everyone is listening intently to what Tarkin is saying.
Luke is sitting next to CHEWIE ANTILLES, a hot-shot pilot about sixteen years old. Artoo is sitting next to a little R-2 robot, who lets out a long whistle of hopelessness and skepticism.
CHEWIE (BLUE TWO) A four by four target at maximum speed with a torpedo yet! That's going to be a neat trick.
CHEWIE (BLUE TWO) This will take a little more than a barnyard marksmanship, believe me.
Red Leader, a roguish looking man in his early thirties, stands and addresses the pilots.
RED LEADER Take a special note of these emplacements. There is a heavy concentration of fire power on the lateral axis... also their generating towers will probably create a strong magnetic field. It is calculated that maneuverability in this sector will be less than point three.
A muted buzz moves throughout the room, but there are no questions.
Luke and little Artoo enter a huge spaceship hangar carved out of the interior of the crumbling temple and hurry along a long line of gleaming spacefighters.
Flight crews rush here and there loading last minute armament and unlocking power couplings. Luke is stopped by Blue Leader, a rugged, handsome man in his forties. He has the confident smile of a born leader.
BLUE LEADER You're Starkiller?
BLUE LEADER Have you been checked out?
Blue Leader has a skeptical look on his face.
BLUE LEADER Six hours, huh? Well, that's your ship there. You're blue five. You stay glued to me. I don't want any independent operations out there. Personally I think it's foolish for them to be sending fresh kids out on a job like this. This is no joy ride we're going on.
A warning buzzer sounds and Blue Leader smiles.
BLUE LEADER May the Force be with you.
Luke makes a short bow from the waist as Blue Leader hurries to his ship. Luke's ground crew has hoisted little Artoo into a socket on the back of the one-man starship fighter. Luke climbs aboard the sleek, deadly spacecraft. Blue Leader gives his ground crew the sig- nal that he is starting his ion engines. Luke's CREW CHIEF pats him on the helmet and has to yell to be heard over the ion engines.
Luke shakes his head no.
The canopy is closed and the powerful starship moves into a deep runway shaft that leads to the outside. Luke checks out the computer readouts as his crew locks down the armament.
The little droid, who is now part of the exterior shell of the starship, beeps that he is fine, which reads out over the computer monitor. One of the crewman climbs up to the cockpit.
He hangs a small good luck charm inside the cockpit as the canopy starts to slide closed. Luke signals to the crewmen that everything is okay. Other crewmen say goodbye to their pilots, some serious, some kidding -- all with a great deal of hidden emotion.
All that can be seen of the fortress is a lone guard standing on a small pedestal jutting out above the dense jungle. The muted, gruesome crying sounds that naturally permeate this eerie purgatory are overwhelmed by the thundering din of ion rockets as four silver starships catapult from the foliage in a tight forma- tion and disappear into the morning cloud cover.
The princess sits quietly before the giant display show- ing the planet of Yavin and her four moons. The red dot that represents the Death Star moves ever closer to the system. A series of green dots appear around the fourth moon. The Grand Mouff Tarkin stands behind the princess with several other field commanders.
Everyone turns as Threepio enters with Old Ben who is walking with a chrome cane. The old man smiles at the young princess.
The voices of the starpilots are broadcast into the room.
BLUE LEADER (V.O.) Masassi Base, we have visual contact.
A small bright speck orbiting the huge red planet of Yavin sparkles in the light of the distant sun. Eight rebel starships settle ominously into the foreground, moving swiftly toward the orbiting speck. As the starships move closer, the awesome size of the gargan- tuan Imperial space fortress is revealed.
Blue Leader, in the first ship, signals to the other pilots in his wing group. The many monitors are filled with various computer readouts and displays. Over the com-link one of the other starpilots (BLUE SIX) reports to Blue Leader.
BLUE SIX (V.O.) (intercom) Look at the size of that thing!
BLUE LEADER Cut off, Blue Six. Stand by. Blue group, move in to cover the south. Red group, try for the exhaust port. Settle in. Here we go.
Luke adjusts the controls of the tiny starfighter and lowers the sunshade on his goggles.
BLUE LEADER (V.O.) Blue Five, does that glare bother you?
LUKE (BLUE FIVE) I've got it blocked. I'm all right.
Fuel pods are jettisoned. The starship fighters extend their dart-like wings and break off into a power dive attack on the space fortress. A barrage of laser fire from the huge fortress creates a wall of death through which most of the rebel craft miraculously emerge -- undamaged. Multiple laser bolts streak from the star- ship fighters, creating small explosions on the complex surface of the fort. Luke directs his fire at one of the prime power terminals. It explodes, generating weird electronic arcs that leap off the station's surface.
Walls buckle and cave in, sucking debris and personnel into the vacuum of space. Alarm sirens scream as sol- diers scramble to large turbo-powered laser gun emplace- ments. Officers yell orders through the smoke and con- fusion. Man and robots of various shapes and sizes run to their battle stations. Standing in the middle of the chaos, a vision of calm and foreboding, is the evil Sith knight, Darth Vader. Several astro-officers run up to him, still putting on the helmets and equipment.
The princess and her generals listen silently to the action of the starships over the com-link. The aides and troops move about very quietly listening to the battle as they work.
BLUE LEADER (V.O.) Blue One to Masassi Base, we're nearing the south pole transmitter area. The magnetic concussion is getting very rough. We're starting our run. Tighten it up. Blue Two, tighten it up. Watch those towers.
CHEWIE (BLUE TWO)(V.O.) Heavy fire, boss. Twenty-three degrees.
BLUE LEADER (V.O.) I see it. Pull in. Pull in. We're picking up some interference.
BLUE SIX (V.O.) Wow, I've never seen such fire power.
BLUE LEADER (V.O.) Pull in, Blue Two. Pull in. Chewie, do you read me? Chewie?
CHEWIE (V.O.) I'm all right, boss. I've got a target. I'm going in to check it out.
BLUE SIX (V.O.) There is too much action, Chewie. Get out!
BLUE LEADER (V.O.) Break off, Chewie. Acknowledge. We've hit to much interference. Blue Six, can you see Blue Two?
BLUE SIX (V.O) I've lost him. There's a heavy fire zone on this side. My scanner's jammed. Blue Five?
LUKE (V.O.) He's gone. No, wait. There he is. Fin damage, but he's all right.
A sigh of relief sweeps across the war room.
BLUE LEADER (V.O.) Watch your back, Luke. Watch your back! Squad above you, Blue Five! Coming in -- about six ships.
165-171 EXT. SPACE AROUND FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN - BATTLE -165-171 REBEL FIGHTERS
Two fin-winged Imperial fighters dive on Luke, but he does a quick spiral turn and eludes them.
RED LEADER Blue Leader, this is Red Leader... We've marked the target and are starting our attack run.
BLUE LEADER I copy, Red Leader. We'll try to keep them busy on this end. Blue Five, stay close now...
Blue Leader and Luke (Blue Five) and Blue Four dive in unison through a forest of radar domes, antenna and gun towers. They are followed by four Imperial tie fighters. The two rebel ships make a sharp turn and come around behind the Imperial ships. Blue Four and Blue Leader fire into the tie fighters as the six ships crisscross the surface of the fortress.
Suddenly a dense barrage of laser fire erupts from a protruding tower, catching Blue Four broadside. The rebel spacecraft bursts into a million flaming pieces. Luke has a sudden realization of the danger he is in, but it quickly fades as another Imperial fighter moves onto his tail and begins firing. Luke rolls away from the enemy ship.
Blue Leader reacts to the loss of his wing man with a renewed attack on the Imperial ships -- one of which falls away and hits a prime power terminal, creating an arching spectacle. A chain reaction is set off, creat- ing a series of explosions leaping across the surface of the fortress from terminal to terminal.
A blazing and out of control Red Leader dives toward the Death Star surface followed by Darth Vader in a small, spider-like Imperial fighter.
RED LEADER Blue Leader, this is Red Leader. They hit us before we could get down. You'll need more air cover. Sith Lords...
Blue Leader see Luke has an Imperial fighter on his tail.
BLUE LEADER We're on our way, Red Leader.
Blue Two (Chewie) miraculously dives his ship through a virtual sea of laser fire and blasts the Imperial fighters chasing Luke into dust. Chewie signals to Luke, who lets out a whooping cheer as Chewie veers into a victory roll.
BLUE LEADER Great moves, Chewie. Red Leader needs some help. We're going to try for the exhaust port. Coincide, Blue Five.
Luke and Blue Three bob and weave in formation toward a group of giant towers at the north pole.
LUKE (BLUE FIVE) I see the target. It looks good.
BLUE THREE I've got it. We're hit! We're hit!
LUKE (BLUE FIVE) Eject... Eject. Blue Three, do you read?
BLUE THREE I'm all right. I can hold it. Give me a little room, Blue Five. Watch it! Watch it!
Blue Three wobbles a little, then drops away sharply, plowing into a huge laser gun emplacement, causing a hideous series of chain reaction explosions. The re- maining starships of the Blue group fly in a tight formation and dive between the tall towers near the exhaust port.
BLUE LEADER Masassi Base, we're in position and staring for the target. Chewie, hold your fire until we're within point zero five four. Make it count. Luke, stay close.
Several ack-ack lasers begin to open fire on the approaching spacecraft. The rebel ships direct their fire at a small, glowing blue hole at the base of one of the towers. One of the Blue Four's engines begins to smoke and an R-2 unit pops out of the back and attempts to repair it.
CHEWIE (BLUE TWO) I'm on it.
Blue Two dives directly at the small target, is unable to pull out and crashes into the base of one of the towers. Blue Leader dives between the towers, firing away, but is unable to hit the small hole.
BLUE LEADER It's very small. It's going to be difficult. Send in the green group. I'll try again.
Luke chases an Imperial chip that is chasing Blue Leader.
One of the two large fins on the Imperial fighter explodes and it careens wildly, leaving an erratic trail of smoke before eventually crashing into a solar panel.
Luke swings the small craft around the many outcroppings of laser towers and transmitters.
LUKE (BLUE FIVE) I'm right behind you, Blue Leader.
BLUE LEADER What's that?
Out of the gloom streaks Darth Vader firing on Blue Leader. Luke tries to intercept the Imperial ship, but Vader outmaneuvers him. Blue Leader dives on the ex- haust port, followed by Darth Vader, who is followed by Luke, desperately trying to catch up.
BLUE LEADER Blue Five, break off your cover attack. It's too late. Make your own run on the exhaust port. Do you copy, Luke?
LUKE (BLUE FIVE) Yes, sir, but I can get him...
BLUE LEADER Forget it, son.
One of the five large engines on Blue Leader's fighter explodes. He careens wildly, leaving an erratic trail of smoke before eventually crashing into a solar panel. Luke can hear the sharp laugh of Vader over the com-link.
Darth Vader laughs maniacally as he swings his craft around and starts after Luke's ship.
Luke's hand instinctively goes to the pocket that holds the Kiber Crystal. Its glow lights up the entire cabin.
LUKE (BLUE FIVE) I am Luke Starkiller. Had we met earlier, you would not be here.
On the computer display board, several of the markers indicating rebel fighters go dark. The princess gives Old Ben a look of amused surprise at Luke's boldness. GENERAL DODANA approaches the princess.
The princess gives Dodana a hard look and the cowardly general back away.
Luke (Blue Five) dives on the Death Star at an incredi- ble speed. He soon realizes Vader is on his tail. He spins his ship to evade the pursuing Dark Lord, but Vader is still there. His ship rock and shudders under the nearby impact of Vader exploding laser bolts. Luke straightens his ship out and it skims across the surface of the fortress, creating a blur.
LUKE (BLUE FIVE) Approaching target. I', almost home.
VADER (V.O.) Not yet, my bold friend.
Vader hits one of Luke's engines and parts scatter in all directions. The ship wobbles, but Luke keeps the craft on target and fires his torpedo... It explodes harmlessly to one side of the tiny exhaust port. He pulls his ship up to try for another run.
LUKE (BLUE FIVE) Blast it! Artoo, we tool a little back there. My stability is off about twelve degrees. See if you can't jam the connecting relays. We have to get stabilized.
Artoo pops out of his socket and carefully makes his way back to the smoldering engine. Two other rebel ships make a dive on the exhaust port. One is blasted away by Vader, the other fires at the exhaust port and misses.
BLUE EIGHT There is just too much interference with that Sith Lord out there. It's impossible to get an accurate target line-up with him there.
LUKE (BLUE FIVE) Hurry with those relays, Artoo. We're going to try again.
Luke's tiny rebel fighter banks and prepares for a second attack on the exhaust port.
Artoo struggles to repair the damage to one of the huge engines. blue Eight moves in next to him.
BLUE EIGHT I'll cover for you, Blue Five.
The two rebels start their attack dive. The surface of the Death Star races toward them. Suddenly, streaking down from above them, Vader and two other Imperial fighters sweep into view with all of their laser cannons blazing away. Laser bolts explode around little Artoo as he works frantically to repair the stabilizer. Laser fire hits Blue Eight and he explodes.
The three Imperial fighters dive on the lone rebel star- ship. Luke struggles to keep control of the ship with laser bolts streaking past him on all sides.
LUKE (BLUE FIVE) Blast!
Suddenly Vader's wing man explodes into a shower of burning fragments. Vader is surprised and looks around for the cause of his wing man's misfortune.
CTR-5 Collision course... watch out!
Heading right for the two Imperial fighters is Han Solo in the battered old pirate starship. CTR-5 veers radi- cally, clipping Vader's solar fin in the maneuver. Vader spins out of control. Han blasts CTR-5 to smoke.
LUKE (BLUE FIVE) Thanks, old buddy. I'll be with you in a second.
Luke levels his fighter and skims the surface of the fortress, through a wall of laser fire. Artoo beeps a message to Luke.
LUKE (BLUE FIVE) That's good, Artoo. Just keep it that way.
As he passes the exhaust port, Luke fires a torpedo, which goes directly down the exhaust shaft. Luke looks down at the glowing Kiber Crystal in his hand.
LUKE (BLUE FIVE) We did it! I hit it perfectly. Let's get out of here.
Luke veers sharply away from the Death Star as ominous rumbles and explosions are heard coming from within the huge super fortress. The rebel ship speeds past the large pirate starship and several other surviving rebel fighters as they flee from the pending holocaust. A sudden great flash replaces the fortress, and a rain- storm of rubble pelts the starships. Several giant ex- plosions follow until there is only a smoke cloud where the mighty fortress once orbited Yavin.
Vader's starship with a bent solar fin limps into the vast darkness of space attempting to make it back to the relative safety of Alderaan.
Luke climbs out of his starship and is cheered by a throng of ground crews and pilots. Little Artoo is helped off the back of the starship and he's greeted by Threepio. Luke spots Han and Chewbacca as they enter and runs over to them. he hugs the Corellian pirate and the giant Wookiee. They all laugh and cheer. The crowd parts, revealing Old Ben. Luke goes to him and bows from waist. The old man embraces him.
Luke, Artoo, Threepio, Han and Chewbacca enter the huge ruins of the main temple.
Hundreds of troops are lined up in neat rows. Banners are flying and at the far end stands a vision in white, the beautiful young Princess Leia. Luke and the others solemnly march up the long aisle and kneel before Princess Leia. Artoo and Threepio are rather awestruck at the whole event. Chewbacca is confused. Old Ben is sitting to the right of the Princess, while the Grand Mouff Tarkin sits on her left. Leia is dressed in a long, white dress and is staggeringly beautiful. She rises and places a gold medallion around Han's neck, then repeats the ceremony with Chewbacca, the robots and finally Luke. They turn and face the assembled troops, who all bow before them.
FADE OUT.
END CREDITS.
THE END